Student name:__________
MULTIPLE CHOICE - Choose the one alternative that best completes the statement or answers the question.
1. Managers in all types of businesses must develop a clear answer for which of the following questions?
                     1. Where are we now?
                     2. Where do we want to go from here?
                     3. What is the set of actions that we need to take to outperform the company’s competitors and achieve superior profitability?
                     4. When will we know we are there?
                     5. What moves and approaches do we need to gain advantage in the marketplace?


2. A company’s strategy consists of
                     1. actions to develop a more appealing business model than rivals.
                     2. plans involving alignment of organizational activities and strategic objectives.
                     3. offensive and defensive moves to generate revenues and increase profit margins.
                     4. competitive moves and approaches that managers have developed to grow the business, attract and please customers, conduct operations, and achieve targeted objectives.
                     5. its strategic vision, its strategic objectives, and its strategic intent.


3. The competitive moves and business approaches a company’s management is using to grow the business, compete successfully, attract and please customers, conduct operations, respond to changing economic and market conditions, and achieve organizational objectives is referred to as its
                     1. strategy.
                     2. moves to imitate key rivals.
                     3. strategic mission.
                     4. business model.
                     5. strategic vision.


4. The essence of strategy is
                     1. developing lasting success that can support growth and secure the company’s future over the long term.
                     2. re-creating a business model with regularity.
                     3. matching rival businesses’ products and quality dimensions in the marketplace.
                     4. building profits for short-term success.
                     5. realigning the market to provoke change in rival companies.


5. A company’s strategy has a chance of succeeding only when it is predicated on
                     1. building revenues, controlling costs, and generating an attractive profit.
                     2. actions, business approaches, and competitive moves aimed at appealing to buyers and setting the company apart from rivals.
                     3. management’s concepts of “where we have been,” “where we are headed,” and “where we need to go.”
                     4. the approval of a business model by a company’s board of directors that spells out how to outcompete with rivals and make the company profitable.
                     5. educated choices that management has made regarding which financial and operating plans to pursue.


6. Under Armour, a multinational sports apparel company, plans entry into a new geographical location, Vietnam, considered an emerging market, with its established and best-selling product line: women’s running shorts. How should Under Armour not craft a strategy to enhance future profits in Vietnam?
                     1. create a sales plan that aims to enhance initial sales and market penetration with low prices based on high operational costs
                     2. devise a marketing plan that aims at mass customer segments with attractive advertisements and offers on products
                     3. implement a diversification plan that aims at adding health and fitness centers to its existing line of products
                     4. chart an acquisition plan that aims at acquiring local smaller-scale sports apparel manufacturers that seek funding and offer a complementary product lineup
                     5. establish a distribution plan to set up more supply outlets than any other rivals in the location


7. Which of the following is not an element of a company’s business strategy?
                     1. actions to respond to changing market conditions or other external factors
                     2. actions to strengthen competitiveness via strategic alliances and collaborative partnerships
                     3. actions to strengthen internal capabilities and competitively valuable resources
                     4. actions to manage the functional areas of the business
                     5. actions to revise the company’s financial and strategic performance targets


8. Pizza Port, a craft brewing and pizza chain in southern California, manufactures thin-crust pizzas and offers one free pint of beer with the purchase of four large pizzas. Which of the following actions would you be most unlikely to advise Pizza Port’s owners in formulating a strategy in order to enhance its future profits?
                     1. Create a sales plan that aims to enhance initial sales and market penetration with low prices based on high operational costs.
                     2. Devise a social media marketing plan that aims at mass customer segments, providing them with updates on new releases of beer, attractive advertisements, and offers on products.
                     3. Implement a diversification plan that aims at eventually adding regions outside of southern California to its existing line of products.
                     4. Chart an acquisition plan that aims at rebranding and creating franchises with local smaller-scale pizza restaurants and craft beer taprooms that seek funding and offer attractive locations.
                     5. Establish a distribution plan to set up more rapid pizza and beer delivery than any other rivals in the region.


9. The most important aspect(s) of a company’s business strategy
                     1. are the actions and moves in the marketplace that managers take to gain a sustainable competitive advantage.
                     2. is figuring out how to maximize profits and shareholder value.
                     3. concerns how to improve the efficiency of its business model.
                     4. deals with how management plans to maximize profits while, at the same time, operating in a socially responsible manner.
                     5. is figuring out how to become the industry’s low-cost provider.


10. A creative, distinctive strategy that delivers a sustainable, competitive advantage is important because
                     1. without a proven strategy, a company is likely to fall into bankruptcy.
                     2. without a competitive advantage, a company cannot have a profitable business model.
                     3. a strategy that yields a competitive advantage over rivals is a company’s most reliable means of achieving above-average profitability and financial performance.
                     4. a competitive advantage is what enables a company to achieve its strategic objectives.
                     5. how a company goes about trying to please customers and outcompete rivals is what enables senior managers to choose an appropriate strategic vision for the company.


11. You are a strategic consultant to Danielle and Casey, partners in a local upscale coffee roasting and retail business. In counselling the partners about how to achieve a sustainable competitive advantage, you most likely would advise them to
                     1. allow worthy rivals to match or surpass any elements of your current competitive advantage.
                     2. have some distinctive strategic element that draws in customers and produces a competitive edge.
                     3. utilize copycat product offerings or pursue similar approaches as rivals in order to stake out the same market position.
                     4. engage in stealth practices to beat competitors at their own game.
                     5. maintain their business model even at the expense of long-term profits.


12. A company’s business model
                     1. specifies the goals of above-average profitability and outstanding financial performance.
                     2. is unrelated to its customer value proposition and profit formula.
                     3. has nothing to do with whether it can execute its customer value proposition profitably.
                     4. is management’s blueprint for delivering a valuable product or service to customers in a manner that will yield an attractive profit.
                     5. specifies exactly how it intends to outcompete rivals to achieve its strategic vision.


13. A company’s business model consists of its
                     1. mission statement and its SWOT analysis.
                     2. customer value proposition and its vision statement.
                     3. operating and financial plans.
                     4. profit formula and strategic vision.
                     5. profit formula and customer value proposition.


14. In their respective business models, Spotify utilizes algorithms to generate playlists based on users’ predicted music preferences and Sirius XM offers subscribers streaming Internet channels and the ability to create personalized, commercial-free stations for online and mobile listening. These aspects of a business model are known as a
                     1. competitive strategy.
                     2. profit formula.
                     3. market entry wedge.
                     4. customer value proposition.
                     5. copycat competitive approach.


15. A company achieves sustainable competitive advantage when
                     1. it has a profitable business model.
                     2. a sufficiently large number of buyers have a lasting preference for its products or services as compared to the offerings of competitors.
                     3. it is able to maximize shareholder wealth.
                     4. it is consistently able to achieve both its strategic and financial objectives.
                     5. its strategy and its business model are well matched and in sync.


16. A creative, distinctive strategy that sets a company apart from rivals and that gives it a sustainable competitive advantage
                     1. is a reliable indicator that the company has a profitable business model.
                     2. is a company’s most reliable ticket to above-average profitability.
                     3. signals that the company has a bold, ambitious strategic intent that places the achievement of strategic objectives ahead of the achievement of financial objectives.
                     4. is the best indicator that the company’s strategy and business model are well matched and properly synchronized.
                     5. allows a company’s managers to ignore competitors’ responses to any moves that the company might make.


17. FaberRoad, a respected courier brand, is fast losing its market share to competitors who do overnight deliveries of packages or offer lower prices. The company’s research department has found that many customers care more about knowing exactly when a package will arrive than getting it the next day. Which strategy would best address the current state of FaberRoad and help it regain its market?
                     1. employing night delivery drivers at a high cost and maintenance charges
                     2. developing radio tags that could be attached to packages to allow for real-time tracking by customers’ PCs and mobile phones
                     3. diversifying the different types of packages that can be transported and enabling booking through calls
                     4. acquiring small transportation companies with cheaper trucks and tempos, rebranding, and using them for deliveries
                     5. engaging in expensive advertising with new tag lines and famous celebrities to enhance its brand image in the market


18. A salsa manufacturing company that enjoys the least bargaining power with its suppliers would most likely be
                     1. involved in mass production of its products to cater to an expanding customer base.
                     2. actively catering to a broad, price-sensitive customer base.
                     3. manufacturing high-quality salsa and related products from readily available raw materials for a broad customer base.
                     4. selling salsa and related products deemed to be highly popular and easily available across most supermarkets.
                     5. offering high-cost specialized salsas that could be consumed only by customers with specific food allergies.


19. Based upon its advertising slogan, the pizza restaurant that likely offers the best value proposition to its customers is
                     1. Johnny’s Pie Shop: “The Tastiest Pizza You’ve Ever Had.”
                     2. Fast ‘n Fresh Pizza: “Get fresh, hot pizza, delivered under 20 minutes—or it’s free.”
                     3. Sustainable Slices: “Organic and sustainably sourced ingredients that are good for you and the planet.”
                     4. Loyalty Pizza: “One pizza, 5 points: to be redeemed with a pan pizza upon reaching 50 points.”
                     5. Crackerjack Pizza: “Open your pizza box and find a free gift. Hurry! Free gifts for 100 lucky customers.”


20. Which of the following is not a frequently used strategic approach to setting a company apart from rivals and achieving a sustainable competitive advantage?
                     1. aiming for a cost-based competitive advantage
                     2. outcompeting rivals on the basis of such differentiating features as higher quality, wider product selection, added performance, better service, or more attractive styling
                     3. simply trying to mimic the successful strategies of rivals
                     4. focusing on a narrow market niche and winning a competitive edge by doing a better job than rivals of satisfying the needs and tastes of buyers comprising the niche
                     5. developing expertise and resources that give the company competitive capabilities that rivals can’t easily imitate or trump with capabilities of their own


21. BloomsJay Resorts Inc. has multiple tropical resorts in various locations. In a crowded market that caters to all kinds of consumers, this resort caters mainly to LGBTQ clients with a guaranteed hassle-free holiday experience at a premium price. What strategy is BloomsJay using to gain competitive advantage?
                     1. a low-cost provider strategy
                     2. a broad differentiation strategy
                     3. a focused low-cost strategy
                     4. a focused differentiation strategy
                     5. a best-cost provider strategy


22. Arnie’s Noshes, a fast-food facility near a college campus, offers healthy, sustainably grown vegetarian and vegan fast food at higher prices than its competitors in the market and has a drive-through and indoor-seated, casual-dining operation. What strategy is Arnie’s Noshes using to gain competitive advantage?
                     1. a best-cost provider strategy
                     2. a low-cost provider strategy
                     3. a focused low-cost provider strategy
                     4. a broad differentiation strategy
                     5. a focused differentiation strategy


23. An evolving strategy for a rideshare business like Uber or Lyft is not likely to be triggered by
                     1. their need to keep strategy in step with changing circumstances, market conditions, and changing customer needs and expectations.
                     2. the proactive efforts of their managers to fine-tune and improve one or more pieces of the strategy.
                     3. their need to abandon some strategy features that have been faltering or are no longer working well.
                     4. their need to respond to the newly initiated actions and competitive moves of manufacturers of autonomous vehicles.
                     5. their need to respond to short-term swings in the stock market that impact timing of an initial public offering (IPO).


24. Different companies across different industries adopt any one of the five generic strategies to gain competitive advantage. Which of the following businesses is most likely to use a low-cost provider strategy?
                     1. A fashion clothing line uses sought-after designers and natural fabrics.
                     2. A mortgage company specializes in lending money for second homes.
                     3. An online retailer delivers organic groceries overnight.
                     4. A baby products retailer sells unassembled baby furniture produced in China.
                     5. A dairy products manufacturer uses exotic substitutes to produce lactose-free dairy products.


25. A company achieves sustainable competitive advantage when
                     1. its distinctive product offering is trumped by rivals’ products.
                     2. it pursues a best-cost provider strategy.
                     3. competitors erode or imitate its efforts to attain a competitive advantage.
                     4. an attractively large number of buyers develop a durable preference for rivals’ offerings of products or services.
                     5. it develops capabilities proven difficult for competitors to imitate or best.


26. Teladoc Health, a U.S. company, provides virtual health services to businesses via seamlessly connected general medical, mental health, and complex care portals to deliver convenience, outcomes, and significant efficiencies to both parties. Its primary offerings include telehealth, medical opinions, AI and analytics, and licensable platform services. Which of the following value propositions is unlikely to be part of Teladoc Health’s business model?
                     1. We provide free referrals to medical specialists.
                     2. We offer a comparison feature tab that allows business customers to compare offerings from other online health services providers.
                     3. We are updating the site with better high-resolution video.
                     4. We are rolling out a mobile app version of the site to our subscribers.
                     5. We allow our customers to pay through gift coupons.


27. Square attained a solid foothold in small retail and service businesses in the United States, such as hair salons, massage therapists, and food trucks. Currently, Square gets a large percentage of its revenue (greater than 20 percent) from the restaurant business. “Square for restaurants” allows restaurant owners to manage their entire Point of Sale (POS) system, including credit card and mobile wallet payments, menu updates, floor layouts, employee scheduling, tip splitting, payroll processing and employee performance tracking using a single platform, as well as tools such as customer relationship management, inventory management, and employee management. Square’s blueprint for how and why the company’s business approaches will generate revenues sufficient to cover costs and produce attractive profits and returns on investment
                     1. is what is meant by the term strategic intent.
                     2. portrays the essence of a company’s business purpose or mission.
                     3. accounts for why a company’s financial objectives are at the stated level.
                     4. best describes what is meant by a company’s strategy.
                     5. best describes what is meant by a company’s business model.


28. Changing circumstances and ongoing managerial efforts to improve the strategy
                     1. account for why a company’s strategy evolves over time.
                     2. explain why a company’s strategic vision undergoes almost constant change.
                     3. make it very difficult for a company to have concrete strategic objectives.
                     4. make it very hard to know what a company’s strategy really is.
                     5. are only necessary when rivals are gaining market share.


29. It is normal for a company’s strategy to end up being
                     1. left unchanged from management’s original planned set of actions and business approaches since making on-the-spot changes is too risky.
                     2. a combination of defensive moves to protect the company’s market share and offensive initiatives to set the company’s product offering apart from rivals.
                     3. like the strategies of other industry members since all companies are confronting much the same market conditions and competitive pressures.
                     4. a blend of deliberate planned actions to improve the company’s competitiveness and financial performance and as-needed unplanned reactions to unanticipated developments and fresh market conditions.
                     5. a mirror image of its business model, so as to avoid impairing company profitability.


30. Crafting a strategy involves
                     1. blending deliberate, planned initiatives with emergent, unplanned reactive responses to changing circumstances, while abandoning planned strategy elements that have failed in the marketplace.
                     2. developing a five-year strategic plan and then fine-tuning it during the remainder of the plan period.
                     3. trying to imitate as much of the market leader’s strategy as possible so as not to end up at a competitive disadvantage.
                     4. doing everything possible (in the way of price, quality, service, warranties, advertising, and so on) to make sure the company’s product and/or service is very clearly differentiated from the product and or service offerings of rivals.
                     5. All of these accurately characterize the managerial process of crafting a company’s strategy.


31. A company is unlikely to develop an emergent strategy due to
                     1. strategic moves by rival firms.
                     2. unexpected shifts in customer preferences.
                     3. fast-changing technological developments.
                     4. new market opportunities.
                     5. rivals’ value chain deficiencies.


32. Which of the following statements about a company’s realized strategy is true?
                     1. A company’s realized strategy is mostly hidden to outside view and is deliberately kept under wraps by top-level managers.
                     2. A company’s realized strategy is typically planned well in advance and usually deviates little from the planned set of actions.
                     3. A company’s realized strategy generally changes very little over time unless a newly appointed CEO decides to take the company in a new direction with a new strategy.
                     4. A company’s realized strategy is typically a blend of deliberate and/or planned initiatives and emergent and/or unplanned reactive strategy elements.
                     5. A company’s realized strategy is developed mostly on the fly because of the constant efforts of managers to keep rival companies at a disadvantage.


33. A company’s realized business strategy is made up of
                     1. deliberate and/or planned initiatives that have proven themselves in the marketplace and newly launched initiatives aimed at further boosting performance.
                     2. emergent and/or reactive adjustments to unanticipated strategic moves by rivals, unexpected changes in customer preferences, and new market opportunities.
                     3. tactical plans to imitate the key elements of the strategies employed by rivals.
                     4. both deliberate and/or planned initiatives that have proven themselves in the marketplace and newly launched initiatives aimed at further boosting performance and emergent and/or reactive adjustments to unanticipated strategic moves by rivals, unexpected changes in customer preferences, and new market opportunities.
                     5. choices among low-cost provider and differentiation strategies.


34. Consider the following three companies and their strategies.
   * Company A is an established database management company that acquires a well-reputed but small publishing house to enter the booming publishing industry.
   * Company B, a sports management house, declared bankruptcy during a recent recession but now has created a television network that airs regional sports events.
   * Company C, a package delivery business, is a startup based on delivery efficiency models created by a few students, and delivers almost all kinds of packages.
The use of strategies by these three companies can be accurately analyzed by saying that
                     6. Company B employs an emergent strategy, whereas Companies A and C employ deliberate strategies.
                     7. all three companies employ deliberate strategies.
                     8. all three companies employ emergent strategies.
                     9. Company C employs a deliberate strategy; Companies A and B employ emergent strategy.
                     10. Companies A and C employ emergent strategies; Company B employs a deliberate strategy.


35. To which of the following firms is the term “repeatedly evolving strategy” most applicable?
                     1. a government agency that makes plans for a set period of time and implements them phase by phase through the tenure
                     2. a mobile company, established in a saturated market, that aims at quarterly release of new products
                     3. a new cosmetics manufacturer in a market that replicates the products of a competitor at a moderate quality and lower price
                     4. a nationalized bank that lends at a lower interest rate but with a zero processing fee in a market crowded with privatized banks running at high cost
                     5. a firearms regulatory agency, set up by the government, that publishes industry standards for safety, reliability, and quality of arms and ammunition


36. Managers of every company should be willing and ready to modify the strategy because
                     1. market conditions and circumstances are changing over time or the current strategy is clearly failing.
                     2. the task of crafting strategy is a one-time event.
                     3. the strategic vision necessitates periodic updating.
                     4. frequent changes in strategy make it very more difficult for rivals to imitate.
                     5. all strategies are reactive.


37. Which of the following firms uses an emergent strategy?
                     1. A local hardware store offers a ten-percent discount for seniors on the first Wednesday of every month.
                     2. An online book reseller diversifies into custom book publishing.
                     3. An oil-change franchisor continues geographical expansion despite a recession.
                     4. A health food manufacturer integrates forward into drive-through health food restaurants.
                     5. A microbrewer invests in building community water wells during a drought.


38. A luxury hot-tub manufacturer offered monogrammed bathrobes as a gimmick when their hot tubs did not sell. Their monogrammed bathrobes became famous among some women and led to a line of exclusive bath products for women. The bathtub manufacturer established shops in various regional locations and hired celebrities to market their products to enhance sales. Today, its products are sold through retail outlets and online sites throughout the world. Which of the following is accurate?
                     1. Offering scented bubble-bath foams and massage coupons was an emergent strategy.
                     2. Creating a sub-brand that offered exclusive bath products for women was an emergent strategy.
                     3. Establishing shops in regional locations was an emergent strategy.
                     4. Roping in celebrities to market their products was an emergent strategy.
                     5. Creating a worldwide presence through retail outlets and online sites was an emergent strategy.


39. An industrial air-conditioner manufacturing giant decides to outsource its operations to a new geographical location with cheaper labor amidst ongoing labor strikes in a few of its existing locations (due to proposed job cuts and relocation of the plant offshore). This draws criticism in its home market and affects its current market position and productivity. Which of the following would be an appropriate reactive (emergent) strategy while moving forward?
                     1. hiring and training new talent to begin operations in the emerging market
                     2. acquiring a local computer chip marketing and distribution specialist firm in the new location
                     3. canceling the idea of outsourcing and retaining the existing workforce to run operations
                     4. shifting the existing workforce to the new geographical location and paying them according to new standards
                     5. canceling the job cuts till the market situation and entry operations stabilize


40. A winning strategy is one that
                     1. builds strategic fit, is socially responsible, and maximizes shareholder wealth.
                     2. is highly profitable and boosts the company’s market share.
                     3. results in a company becoming the dominant industry leader.
                     4. fits the company’s internal and external situation, builds sustainable competitive advantage, and improves company performance.
                     5. can pass the ethical standards test, the strategic intent test, and the profitability test.


41. A well-conceived strategy builds a company’s
                     1. profitability and financial strength.
                     2. competitive strength and market standing.
                     3. distinctive competencies and sustainability.
                     4. competitive edge.
                     5. ethical worthiness and corporate social responsibility.


42. You have been asked to advise Waltham Furniture, a company that seeks to serve a target middle-class customer demographic obsessed with the quality and price of products. Your proposed value proposition for this company to offer to its customers would be to
                     1. identify the unique features of your client’s furniture without comparing it with a rival’s products.
                     2. offer copycat furniture at low cost but an average quality compared to your client’s rivals.
                     3. offer the same quality of furniture as your client’s rivals but at a high cost based on greater market share and higher brand value.
                     4. provide comparable quality furniture at a much lower price than your rivals but leave the final assembly of purchased furniture to customers accompanied by an easy-to-follow assembly guide.
                     5. market and sell only average quality furniture compared to your rivals at an imperceptible difference in price.


43. In evaluating proposed or existing strategies, managers should
                     1. initiate new initiatives even though they don’t seem to match the company’s internal and external situation.
                     2. scrutinize the company’s existing strategies on a regular basis to ensure they offer a good strategic fit, create a competitive advantage, and result in above-average performance.
                     3. evaluate the firm’s business model at least every three years.
                     4. ensure core capabilities are incorporated for establishing a competitive advantage.
                     5. align existing strategies with new strategies to emphasize incremental gains.


44. Which of the following questions ought to be used to distinguish a winning strategy from a so-so or flawed strategy?
                     1. Does the strategy contain a sufficient number of emergent and/or reactive elements?
                     2. Is the company putting too little emphasis on growth and profitability and too much emphasis on behaving in an ethical and socially responsible manner?
                     3. Is the strategy built on a company’s weakness, or does it require resources that are deficient in the company?
                     4. Is the strategy well matched to the company’s situation, helping the company achieve a sustainable competitive advantage and resulting in better company performance?
                     5. Does the strategy strike a good balance between maximizing shareholder wealth and maximizing customer satisfaction?


45. A pharmaceutical giant acquires a manufacturer of rare specialty drugs to improve its falling share prices and invests all its wealth into the deal. Due to a deficit, it agrees to do a joint venture for the acquisition and involves a major automobile giant to fund the deal. After a rocky start, the companies now have a strong market position and generate good profits. Which of the following regarding the company’s strategy is true?
                     1. It fails the performance test.
                     2. It fails the competitive advantage and the fit tests.
                     3. It is a winning strategy.
                     4. It fails in all three tests.
                     5. It fails the fit test, but passes the competitive advantage and performance tests.


46. In evaluating proposed or existing strategies managers should
                     1. evaluate the firm’s business model at least every three years.
                     2. align existing strategies with new strategies to emphasize incremental gains.
                     3. scrutinize the company’s existing strategies on a regular basis to ensure they offer a good strategic fit, create a competitive advantage, resulting in an above-average performance.
                     4. plan and implement new initiatives regardless of whether or not these match the company’s internal and external situation.
                     5. ensure core capabilities are incorporated for establishing a competitive advantage.


47. For John Sidanta, CEO and founder of Primaplast, a manufacturer of biodegradable plastic drinking straws made from recycled material, crafting and executing a strategy is a top-priority managerial task because
                     1. it helps Primaplast management create tight fits between a company’s strategic vision and business model.
                     2. it allows Primaplast company personnel, and especially senior executives, to know the answer to “who are we, what do we do, and where are we headed?”
                     3. it is Primaplast management’s prescription for doing business, its roadmap to competitive advantage, a game plan for pleasing customers, and its formula for improving performance, especially in light of impending community and some food service outlets’ bans on conventional plastic drinking straws.
                     4. it provides Primaplast with clear guidance as to what the company’s business model and strategic intent are, and helps keep managerial decision-making from being rudderless.
                     5. it establishes how well Primaplast executives perform these tasks and are the key determinants of executive compensation.


48. Shopify, which was originally founded as a Canadian snowboard marketing company, has subsequently evolved into an e-commerce software solutions provider that allows merchants to quickly and easily set up and maintain an online store. Shopify helps merchants compete against Amazon. It’s been expanding its business to provide tools in payments, inventory control, and shipping. In addition, the company rolled out Shopify Capital to extend loans to U.S. merchants. To test the merits of Shopify’s strategy and distinguish it as a winning strategy, which major question needs to be addressed?
                     1. Is Shopify’s strategy helping the company achieve a sustainable competitive advantage, and is it resulting in a better company performance?
                     2. Is Shopify putting too little emphasis on growth and profitability and too much emphasis on behaving in an ethical and socially responsible manner?
                     3. Is Shopify’s strategy resulting in the development of additional competitive capabilities?
                     4. Is Shopify’s strategy ethical and socially responsible, and does it put enough emphasis on good product quality and good customer service?
                     5. Does Shopify’s strategy strike a good balance between maximizing shareholder wealth and maximizing customer satisfaction?


49. Ben Weprin is founder and CEO of Graduate Hotel, a growing chain of boutique hotels situated near college campuses and designed to cater to the nostalgia and local boosterism that are part of the culture of university towns. (Room keys are imprinted with the names of famous alumni, and public spaces are decorated with historical photos of campus life, vintage art and other collegiate artifacts.) Mr. Weprin and his company are trying to create a brand that will find year-round business by catering to more than just alumni coming back for once-a-year football weekends or 10-year anniversaries of their graduating classes. What is the major question that Mr. Weprin and his team need to ask about his company’s strategy?
                     1. What must managers do, and do well, to make a company a winner in the marketplace?
                     2. What can employees do, and do well, to ensure customer satisfaction?
                     3. What can shareholders do, and do well, to ensure a profitable company?
                     4. What do customers do, how to profile customers who buy a company’s product, and tailor sales strategy around them?
                     5. What do suppliers do, and how to get supplies at the lowest cost to build a profitable business?


50. Under what circumstances would it be unwise for the managers of Double Decker Lanes, a local bowling alley, to drastically modify their company’s strategy?
                     1. changing market conditions
                     2. advancing technology
                     3. shifting customer needs
                     4. mounting evidence that the current strategy is not working well
                     5. desiring to mimic the strategy of Epicenter, a recent local entrant in bowling and gaming


51. You have been asked to evaluate Kampus Kombucha’s mission statement, “To heal and refresh everyone we touch.” You would most likely observe that Kampus Kombucha’s mission statement
                     1. specifies the buyer needs that it seeks to satisfy and the customer groups or markets it serves.
                     2. specifically informs customers and employees “who we are, what we do, and why we are here.”
                     3. portrays this company’s aspirations for the future.
                     4. describes more of an objective and a result of what this company does instead of its purpose.
                     5. is vague, fairly uninformative, and blurs the essence of this company’s business activities.


52. Which of the following is an integral part of the managerial process of crafting and executing strategy?
                     1. developing a proven business model
                     2. setting objectives and using them as yardsticks for measuring the company’s performance and progress
                     3. deciding how much of the company’s resources to employ in the pursuit of sustainable competitive advantage
                     4. communicating the company’s mission and purpose to all employees
                     5. deciding on the composition of the company’s board of directors


53. Which of the following are integral parts of the managerial process of crafting and executing strategy?
                     1. deciding on the company’s strategic intent, setting financial objectives, crafting a strategy, and choosing what business approaches and operating practices to employ
                     2. developing a proven business model, deciding on the company’s strategic intent, and crafting a strategy
                     3. setting objectives, crafting a strategy, implementing and executing the chosen strategy, and deciding how much of the company’s resources to employ in the pursuit of sustainable competitive advantage
                     4. coming up with a statement of the company’s mission and purpose, setting objectives, choosing what business approaches to employ, selecting a business model, and monitoring developments
                     5. developing a strategic vision, setting objectives, crafting a strategy, and initiating corrective adjustments


54. When companies adopt the strategy formulation, strategy execution process, the first step is to
                     1. monitor internal and external developments and initiate corrective adjustments to the business model when necessary.
                     2. adopt a proven business model, decide on the company’s top management team, and craft a strategy.
                     3. execute the company’s chosen strategy efficiently and effectively.
                     4. set objectives and develop a profitable business model to meet those objectives.
                     5. develop a strategic vision, mission, and values.


55. The strategic management process is shaped by
                     1. management’s strategic vision, strategic and financial objectives, and strategy.
                     2. the decisions made by the compensation and audit committees of the board of directors.
                     3. external factors such as the industry’s economic and competitive conditions and internal factors such as the company’s collection of resources and capabilities.
                     4. a company’s customer value proposition and profit formula.
                     5. actions to strengthen competitive capabilities and correct weaknesses, actions to strengthen market standing and competitiveness by acquiring or merging with other companies, and actions to enter new geographic or product markets.


56. TOMS Shoes’ company values are
                     1. focused on the wealth maximization of shareholders.
                     2. strictly limited in number (not more than two per company).
                     3. barely distinguishable among those of other rivals in the footwear industry.
                     4. directly linked to this company’s strategic vision, whereas its mission has other underlying assets.
                     5. an integral part of this company’s DNA, if executives seek to ingrain designated core values into corporate culture.


57. The strategic management process is shaped by
                     1. management’s strategic vision, strategic and financial objectives, and strategy.
                     2. the decisions made by the compensation and audit committees of the board of directors.
                     3. external factors such as the industry’s economic and competitive conditions and internal factors such as the company’s collection of resources and capabilities.
                     4. a company’s customer value proposition and profit formula.
                     5. actions to strengthen competitive capabilities and correct weaknesses, actions to strengthen market standing and competitiveness by acquiring or merging with other companies, and actions to enter new geographic or product markets.


58. When a company is confronted with significant industry change that mandates radical revision of its strategic course, the company is said to have encountered a(n)
                     1. learning and growth perspective.
                     2. strategic inflection point.
                     3. strategic roadblock.
                     4. new strategic opportunity.
                     5. opportunity for corporate entrepreneurship.


59. A company’s strategic plan consists of
                     1. its balanced scorecard and its business model.
                     2. a vision of where it is headed, a set of performance targets, and a strategy to achieve them.
                     3. its strategy and management’s specific, detailed plans for implementing it.
                     4. a company’s plans for improving value-creating internal processes.
                     5. a strategic vision, a strategy, and a business model.


60. The strategy formulation, strategy execution process
                     1. is usually delegated to members of a company’s board of directors so as not to infringe on the time of busy executives.
                     2. includes establishing a company’s mission, developing a business model aimed at making the company an industry leader, and crafting a strategy to implement and execute the business model.
                     3. embraces the tasks of developing a strategic vision, setting objectives, crafting a strategy, implementing and executing the strategy, and then monitoring developments and initiating corrective adjustments in light of experience, changing conditions, and new opportunities.
                     4. is principally concerned with sizing up an organization’s internal and external situation, so as to be prepared for the challenge of developing a sound business model.
                     5. is primarily the responsibility of top executives and the board of directors; very few managers below this level are involved.


61. A company’s strategic vision concerns
                     1. a company’s directional path and future product-customer-market-technology focus.
                     2. why the company does certain things in trying to please its customers.
                     3. management’s story line of how it intends to make a profit with the chosen strategy.
                     4. “who we are and what we do.”
                     5. what future actions the enterprise will likely undertake to outmaneuver rivals and achieve a sustainable competitive advantage.


62. Management’s strategic vision for an organization
                     1. charts a strategic course for the organization (“where we are going”) and outlines the company’s future product-customer-market-technology focus.
                     2. describes in fairly specific terms the organization’s business model, strategic objectives, and strategy.
                     3. spells out how the company will become a big moneymaker and boost shareholder value.
                     4. addresses the critical issue of “why our business model needs to change and how we plan to change it.”
                     5. spells out the organization’s strategic moves that will be undertaken to achieve competitive advantage.


63. Top management’s views about where the company is headed and what its future product-customer-market-technology will be
                     1. indicates what kind of business model the company is going to have in the future.
                     2. constitutes the strategic vision for the company.
                     3. signals what the firm’s strategy will be.
                     4. serves to define the company’s mission.
                     5. indicates what the company’s long-term strategic plan is.


64. Which one of the following is not an accurate attribute of an organization’s strategic vision?
                     1. a clearly articulated view of “where we are going”
                     2. describing the company’s future product-customer-market-technology focus
                     3. pointing an organization in a particular direction and charting a strategic path for it to follow
                     4. providing managers with a reference point for making strategic decisions
                     5. specifying how the company intends to implement and execute its business model


65. Well-conceived visions are
                     1. vague and indefinite, to allow room for a company to change direction.
                     2. generic to many organizations.
                     3. primarily comprised of feel-good statements about the company’s past history.
                     4. innocuous one-sentence statements.
                     5. a reference point for managers in making strategic decisions.


66. Which of the following are characteristics of an effectively worded strategic vision statement?
                     1. graphic, directional, and focused
                     2. challenging, competitive, and “set in concrete”
                     3. balanced, responsible, and rational
                     4. realistic, customer-focused, and market-driven
                     5. achievable, profitable, and ethical


67. You have been asked to evaluate the vision statements of Whole Foods, Keurig Dr. Pepper, Caterpillar, and Nike. Which one of the following is not a characteristic of an effectively worded strategic vision statement?
                     1. focused (is specific enough to provide guidance to managers when making decisions and allocating resources)
                     2. graphic (paints a picture of the kind of company management is trying to create and the market position or positions the company is striving to stake out)
                     3. easy to communicate (is explainable in 10 to 15 minutes, can be reduced to a memorable slogan)
                     4. lengthy, too reliant on superlatives, not memorable, and unfocused
                     5. aspirational (is forward-looking, describes the strategic course that management has charted and the kinds of product-market-customer-technology changes that will help the company prepare for the future)


68. In spring 2022, the CEO of Delta Airlines, a major international air carrier, was contending with an uncertain rebound in business passenger traffic, while in the meantime fuel prices and labor costs are expected to rise in 2022. Meanwhile, a passenger boycott was looming because the company is located in Georgia, a U.S. state that has recently passed new restrictive voting laws. Which of the following statements best expresses how Delta Airlines should proceed to balance its goal of increasing shareholder value with its mission that states, “We employees, customers, and community partners together form a force for positive local and global change, dedicated to bettering standards of living and the environment where we and our customers live and work”?
                     1. Delta needs to balance its pursuit of financial objectives against the pursuit of its strategic objectives.
                     2. Delta needs to balance its pursuit of financial objectives against its company values such as fair treatment, integrity, ethical behavior, innovativeness, teamwork, top-notch quality, superior customer service, social responsibility, and community citizenship.
                     3. Delta needs to balance the pursuit of its business purpose/mission against the pursuit of its strategic vision.
                     4. Delta needs to decide whether it will emphasize stock price appreciation or higher dividend payments to shareholders.
                     5. Delta needs to decide whether it will put more emphasis on the achievement of short-term performance targets or long-range corporate social responsibility targets.


69. Which of the following are common shortcomings of company vision statements?
                     1. too broad, vague or incomplete, bland/uninspiring, not distinctive, and too reliant on superlatives
                     2. unrealistic, unconventional, and unprofessional
                     3. too specific, too inflexible, and can’t be achieved in five years
                     4. too broad, too narrow, and too risky
                     5. not customer-driven, out-of-step with emerging technological trends, and too ambitious


70. Effectively communicating the strategic vision down the line to lower-level managers and employees has the value of
                     1. not only explaining “where we are going and why” but, more importantly, also inspiring and energizing company personnel to unite to get the company moving in the intended direction.
                     2. helping company personnel understand why “making a profit” is so important.
                     3. making it easier for top executives to set strategic objectives.
                     4. helping lower-level managers and employees better understand the company’s business model.
                     5. All of these choices are correct.


71. A benefit of a vivid, engaging, and convincing strategic vision is
                     1. avoiding the need for consensus in support of top management’s own view about the company’s long-term direction.
                     2. increasing risk of rudderless decision making by managers at all levels of the organization.
                     3. creating debate among company personnel behind managerial efforts to get the company moving in the intended direction.
                     4. helping an organization prepare for to make short-term moves in the marketplace.
                     5. providing a beacon for lower-level managers in forming departmental missions.


72. A company’s mission statement typically addresses which of the following questions?
                     1. Who are we? What do we do? Why are we here?
                     2. What objectives and level of performance do we want to achieve?
                     3. Where are we going and what should our strategy be?
                     4. What approach should we take to achieve sustainable competitive advantage?
                     5. Why have we chosen a particular business model to achieve our objectives and our vision?


73. Ideally, a company’s mission statement should be sufficiently descriptive and
                     1. provide scant indication of a company’s services and products that give the company its own identity.
                     2. identify the pressing agenda items for members of its board of directors.
                     3. specify the allocation of resources that underlie the basis of its competitive advantage.
                     4. relate to the future state of the organization that managers seek to attain.
                     5. identify the specific customer or market that the company intends to serve.


74. The difference between the concept of a company mission statement and the concept of a strategic vision is that
                     1. a mission statement typically concerns a company’s present business scope (“who we are and what we do”), whereas the principal concern of a strategic vision is with the company’s future business scope (long-term direction and future product-customer-market-technology focus).
                     2. the mission is to make a profit, whereas a strategic vision concerns how to attract customers.
                     3. a mission statement deals with what to accomplish on behalf of shareholders and a strategic vision concerns what to accomplish on behalf of customers.
                     4. a mission statement concerns what to do to achieve short-run objectives and a strategic vision concerns what to do to achieve long-run performance targets.
                     5. a mission statement deals with “where we are headed,” whereas a strategic vision provides the critical answer to “how will we get there.”


75. A company’s values concern
                     1. whether and to what extent it intends to operate in an ethical and socially responsible manner.
                     2. how aggressively it will seek to maximize profits and enforce high ethical standards.
                     3. the beliefs and operating principles built into the company’s “balanced scorecard” for measuring performance.
                     4. the beliefs, traits, and behavioral norms that company personnel are expected to display in conducting the company’s business and pursuing its strategic vision and mission.
                     5. the beliefs, principles, and ethical standards that are incorporated into the company’s strategic intent and business model.


76. A company’s values relate to such things as
                     1. how it will balance its pursuit of financial objectives against the pursuit of its strategic objectives.
                     2. how it will balance the pursuit of its business purpose/mission against the pursuit of its strategic vision.
                     3. fair treatment, integrity, ethical behavior, innovativeness, teamwork, top-notch quality, superior customer service, social responsibility, and community citizenship.
                     4. whether it will emphasize stock price appreciation or higher dividend payments to shareholders, and whether it will put more emphasis on the achievement of short-term performance targets or long-range performance targets.
                     5. All of these choices are correct.


77. St. Jude’s Children’s Research Hospital and Tom’s Shoes’ core values typically do not include such things as
                     1. giving back to the community and doing the right thing.
                     2. improving people’s lives.
                     3. minimizing innovation, rewarding individuality, and setting financial performance targets.
                     4. social responsibility and community citizenship.
                     5. fair treatment, integrity, and ethical behavior.


78. The primary managerial purpose of setting objectives is to
                     1. ensure that deliberately vague language such as “reducing costs” and “becoming more efficient” is used to provide managers with more latitude in setting stretch objectives for the company.
                     2. designate strategic outcomes as lagging indicators.
                     3. balance the scorecard of financial and strategic objectives.
                     4. designate financial outcomes as leading indicators.
                     5. convert the strategic vision into specific performance targets.


79. A company needs financial objectives
                     1. to overtake key competitors on such important measures as net profit margins and return on investment.
                     2. because without adequate profitability and financial strength, the company’s ultimate survival is jeopardized.
                     3. to indicate to employees that financial objectives always take precedence over strategic objectives.
                     4. to convince shareholders that top management is acting in their interests.
                     5. to translate the company’s business model into action items.


80. Strategic objectives
                     1. are more essential in achieving a company’s strategic vision than are financial objectives.
                     2. are generally less important than financial objectives.
                     3. are more difficult to achieve and harder to measure than financial objectives.
                     4. relate to strengthening a company’s overall market standing and competitive vitality.
                     5. help managers track an organization’s true progress better than do financial objectives.


81. A balanced scorecard for measuring company performance
                     1. entails putting equal emphasis on financial and strategic objectives.
                     2. entails striking a balance between financial objectives and strategic objectives.
                     3. balances the drive for profits with social responsibility obligations.
                     4. prevents the drive for achieving strategic objectives from overwhelming the pursuit of financial objectives.
                     5. entails creating a set of financial objectives balanced among profitability measures and liquidity measures.


82. A balanced scorecard that includes both strategic and financial performance targets is a conceptually strong approach for judging a company’s overall performance because
                     1. financial performance measures are lagging indicators that reflect the results of past decisions and organizational activities, whereas strategic performance measures are leading indicators of a company’s future financial performance.
                     2. it entails putting equal emphasis on good strategy execution and good business model execution.
                     3. a balanced scorecard approach pushes managers to avoid setting objectives that reflect the results of past decisions and organizational activities, and, instead, to set objectives that will serve as leading indicators of a company’s future financial performance.
                     4. it assists managers in putting roughly equal emphasis on short-term and long-term performance targets.
                     5. it more or less forces managers to put equal emphasis on financial and strategic objectives.


83. Why should long-run objectives take precedence over short-run objectives?
                     1. The focus is placed on improving performance in the near term.
                     2. Long-run objectives are necessary for achieving long-term performance and stand as a barrier to undue focus on short-term results.
                     3. Long-run objectives will satisfy shareholder expectations for progress.
                     4. Long-run objectives will force the company to deliver performance improvement in the current period.
                     5. None of these are correct.


84. Well-stated objectives are
                     1. succinct and concise so as to identify the company’s risk and return options.
                     2. representative of customers’ aspirations for company performance.
                     3. directly related to the dividend payout ratio for stockholder returns.
                     4. broad and take into account views of all the stakeholders.
                     5. specific, quantifiable or measurable, challenging, and contain deadlines for achievement.


85. Company objectives
                     1. are needed only on a companywide basis related to a company’s short-term and long-term profitability.
                     2. need to be broken down into performance targets for each of its separate businesses, product lines, functional departments, and individual work units.
                     3. play the important role of establishing the direction in which the company needs to be headed.
                     4. are important because they help guide managers in deciding what the company’s strategy map should look like.
                     5. should be set in a manner that does not conflict with the performance targets of lower-level organizational units.


86. A company needs performance targets or objectives
                     1. for its operations as a whole and for each of its separate businesses, product lines, functional departments, and individual work units.
                     2. because they provide parameters for the company’s strategy map.
                     3. to unify the company’s strategic vision and business model.
                     4. to help guide managers in deciding what strategic path to take in the event that a strategic inflection point is encountered.
                     5. to prevent lower-level organizational units from establishing their own objectives.


87. Which of the following is the best example of a well-stated financial objective?
                     1. Gradually boost market share from 10 percent to 15 percent over the next several years.
                     2. Achieve lower costs than any other industry competitor.
                     3. Boost revenues by a percentage margin greater than the industry average.
                     4. Increase earnings per share by 15 percent annually.
                     5. Maximize total company profits and return on investment.


88. The task of stitching together a strategy
                     1. entails addressing a series of “hows”: how to grow the business, how to please customers, how to outcompete rivals, how to respond to changing market conditions, and how to achieve strategic and financial objectives.
                     2. is primarily an exercise in deciding which of several freshly emerging market opportunities to pursue.
                     3. should be dictated by what is comfortable to management from a risk perspective and what is acceptable in terms of capital requirements.
                     4. requires trying to copy the strategies of industry leaders as closely as possible.
                     5. is mainly an exercise in good planning.


89. Crafting strategy requires
                     1. a collaborative effort that includes managers in various position at various organizational levels.
                     2. executive management involvement only.
                     3. participation by all employees.
                     4. a collaborative effort between the CEO and board members only.
                     5. All of these choices are correct.


90. Corporate strategy
                     1. is primarily concerned with strengthening a company’s market position and building competitive advantage.
                     2. is subject to being changed much less frequently than either a company’s objectives or its mission statement.
                     3. should be based on a flexible strategic vision and mission.
                     4. ensures consistency in strategic approach among businesses of a diversified, multibusiness corporation.
                     5. determines balanced scorecard financial and strategic objectives.


91. Business strategy concerns
                     1. strengthening the company’s market position and building competitive advantage.
                     2. ensuring consistency in strategic approach among the businesses of a diversified company.
                     3. selecting a business model to use in pursuing business objectives.
                     4. selecting a set of financial and strategic objectives for a particular line of business.
                     5. choosing appropriate internal business processes for a specific line of business.


92. The following scenario does not contain the key characteristics of a well-stated organizational objective:
                     1. Jet Blue’s plans to grow 150 flights a day to 200 over the coming years.
                     2. lululemon’s plans to expand its brand globally through international market penetration, opening 11 new stores in Asia and Europe, which include the first stores in China, South Korea, and Switzerland.
                     3. General Mills’ plans to build a more agile organization by streamlining support functions by allowing for more fluid use of resources and idea sharing around the world, enhancing e-commerce know-how to capture more growth in this emerging channel.
                     4. Yahoo!’s created extreme stretch goals to return that company to profitability and raise its stock price.
                     5. TOMS Shoes’ one-for-one model builds the cost of giving away a pair of shoes into the price of each pair it sells, enabling the company to make a profit while still giving away shoes to the needy.


93. Functional strategies
                     1. specify what actions a company should take to resolve specific strategic issues and problems.
                     2. concern the actions, approaches, and practices related to particular functions or processes within a business.
                     3. are concerned with how to unify the firm’s several different operating strategies into a cohesive whole.
                     4. are normally crafted by the company’s CEO and other senior executives.
                     5. are normally crafted by operating-level managers.


94. Functional-area strategies
                     1. are concerned with how to unify the firm’s several different operating strategies into a cohesive whole.
                     2. specify how to build and strengthen the skills, expertise, and competencies needed to execute operating-level strategies successfully.
                     3. support and add power to the corporate-level strategy.
                     4. concern the actions, approaches, and practices to be employed in managing particular functions within a business.
                     5. are normally crafted by operating-level managers.


95. You are the owner of the Voracious Vegetarian, a single-business healthy fast-food restaurant. What would be your company’s strategy-making hierarchy?
                     1. business strategy, divisional strategies, and departmental strategies
                     2. business strategy, divisional strategy, and operating strategy
                     3. business strategy, functional strategies, and operating strategies
                     4. corporate strategy, divisional strategies, and departmental strategies
                     5. managerial strategy, business strategy, and divisional strategies


96. Operating strategies primarily entail
                     1. how best to implement and execute the company’s different business-level strategies.
                     2. how best to carry out the company’s corporate strategy.
                     3. how best to manage initiatives of strategic significance within each functional area.
                     4. the specific plans for building competitive advantage in each major department and operating unit.
                     5. what the firm’s operating departments are doing and how they plan to unify the company’s functional and business strategies.


97. Which of the following is not among the principal managerial tasks associated with managing the strategy execution process?
                     1. ensuring that policies and procedures facilitate rather than impede effective execution
                     2. creating a company culture and work climate conducive to successful strategy implementation and execution
                     3. surveying employees on how employee job satisfaction can be improved
                     4. exerting the internal leadership needed to drive implementation forward
                     5. tying rewards and incentives directly to the achievement of performance objectives


98. Management is obligated to monitor new external developments, evaluate the company’s progress, and make corrective adjustments in order to
                     1. determine whether the company has a balanced scorecard for judging its performance.
                     2. decide whether to continue or change the company’s strategic vision, objectives, strategy and/or strategy execution methods.
                     3. determine what changes should be made to its customer value proposition.
                     4. determine whether the company’s business model is well matched to changing market and competitive circumstances.
                     5. stay on track in achieving the company’s mission and strategic vision.


99. A company’s direction, objectives, and strategy
                     1. never have to be revisited, even if time pressures or internal conditions warrant.
                     2. are set in stone as the end of the planning process.
                     3. are primarily a now-and-then task.
                     4. are insulated from disruptive changes that a company might experience in its external environment.
                     5. are never final, as managing strategy is an ongoing, dynamic process.


100. Proficient strategy execution
                     1. directly involves only the CEO and board of directors of the firm.
                     2. is achieved unevenly, coming quickly in some areas and more slowly in others.
                     3. entails accomplishing desired outcomes and then examining what went right and what went wrong.
                     4. is an every-now-and-then task.
                     5. is always the product of much organizational learning.


101. When things are not going well, the corrective adjustments that top executives need to make include
                     1. discerning whether or not to promote better achievement of strategic performance targets ahead of financial performance targets.
                     2. deciding whether the company would be better off making adjustments that curtail the achievement of strategic objectives or that curtail the achievement of financial objectives.
                     3. knowing when to replace poorly performing subordinates and when to do a better job of coaching them to do the right things.
                     4. having the analytic skills to separate the problems due to a bad strategy from the problems due to bad strategy execution.
                     5. deciding when adjustments are needed and what adjustments to make.


102. You have been hired to oversee the strategy execution process at Venmo, a mobile payments subsidiary of PayPal. Your primary tasks would include
                     1. engendering a company culture and work climate that impedes successful strategy implementation and execution.
                     2. ensuring policies and procedures facilitate rather than impede effective execution.
                     3. surveying employees for their opinions about how to implement strategies for cost reductions and improvements in employee morale and job satisfaction.
                     4. exerting your power to drive implementation forward and improve on how the strategy is being executed.
                     5. taking punitive actions against those staff that are unable to achieve performance objectives.


103. Crafting and executing a company’s strategy is an ongoing, continuous process consisting primarily of
                     1. hiring outside consultants to execute any chosen strategy.
                     2. choosing employees who can support the strategy execution and strive for change.
                     3. effectively developing a strategic vision and mission, setting objectives, monitoring developments, evaluating performance, and initiating corrective adjustments in the company’s vision, mission, objectives, and strategy.
                     4. developing a set of values to safeguard the company from criticism of its practices.
                     5. achieving financial performance outcomes on a regular, sustainable basis.


104. A “balanced scorecard” that includes both strategic and financial performance targets is a conceptually strong approach for judging a company’s overall performance because
                     1. managers need to put roughly equal emphasis on short-term and long-term performance targets.
                     2. financial performance measures are lagging indicators that reflect the results of past decisions and organizational activities, whereas strategic performance measures are leading indicators of a company’s future financial performance and business prospects.
                     3. managers need avoid strategic management processes that reflect the results of past decisions and organizational activities.
                     4. equal emphasis on good strategy execution and good business model execution is an attribute of the most highly successful companies.
                     5. managers typically forget to put equal emphasis on financial and strategic objectives.


105. Siemens AG, Hilton Hotels, Wells Fargo Bank, Ann Taylor Stores, and Ford Motor Company are examples of companies that have adopted the balanced scorecard in order to
                     1. balance the pursuit of good bottom-line profit against the pursuit of nonprofit objectives (although achieving profitability targets is nearly always given greater emphasis).
                     2. set both financial and strategic objectives and putting balanced emphasis on their achievement.
                     3. prevent the pursuit of strategic objectives from dominating the pursuit of financial objectives.
                     4. put equal emphasis on the achievement of financial objectives, strategic objectives, and social responsibility objectives.
                     5. preclude the drive for achieving financial objectives from weakening the attention paid to social responsibility, community citizenship, and other worthy goals.


106. In spring 2022, the CEO of Delta Airlines, a major international air carrier, was contending with an uncertain rebound in business passenger traffic, while in the meantime fuel prices and labor costs are expected to rise in 2022. Meanwhile, a passenger boycott was looming because the company is located in Georgia, a U.S. state that has recently passed new restrictive voting laws. Which of the following statements best expresses how Delta Airlines should proceed to balance its goal of increasing shareholder value with its mission that states, “We employees, customers, and community partners together form a force for positive local and global change, dedicated to bettering standards of living and the environment where we and our customers live and work”?
                     1. Delta needs to balance its pursuit of financial objectives against the pursuit of its strategic objectives.
                     2. Delta needs to balance its pursuit of financial objectives against its company values such as fair treatment, integrity, ethical behavior, innovativeness, teamwork, top-notch quality, superior customer service, social responsibility, and community citizenship.
                     3. Delta needs to balance the pursuit of its business purpose/mission against the pursuit of its strategic vision.
                     4. Delta needs to decide whether it will emphasize stock price appreciation or higher dividend payments to shareholders.
                     5. Delta needs to decide whether it will put more emphasis on the achievement of short-term performance targets or long-range corporate social responsibility targets.


107. You have been hired as a strategic planning manager by Brad Black and Susan Griffin-Black, cofounders and top managers of one of the last remaining large independently-owned organic beauty companies, EO Products. What business strategy could the partners use to strengthen EO Products’ market position and build a competitive advantage over its rivals?
                     1. Work with business unit heads to strengthen the EO Products’ market position by improving the performance of a single line of business unit.
                     2. Improve the combined performance of the set of businesses EO Products has diversified into by capturing cross-business synergies.
                     3. Address the questions of what businesses EO Products should hold or divest.
                     4. Grow EO Products by acquisition, creation of a strategic alliance, or through internal development.
                     5. Provide guidance to EO Products towards which new markets to enter, and how to best enter these new markets.


108. CrossFit operates on an affiliate model in which individual gyms—referred to as boxes—pay to affiliate with CrossFit HQ, which, in turn, provides certain benefits such as training, certification, resources, and qualifications for elite-level sporting events. During late spring 2020, CrossFit HQ and its founder-CEO, Greg Glassman, came under pressure from some of its sponsors and affiliates for not speaking out about important social issues related to civil rights and racial equality, with questions about where the company and its leader stood on the issue of protests that were at the time underway across the United States and in other parts of the world. As a result, many sponsors and affiliates cut ties with CrossFit. Who should oversee CrossFit’s response strategy?
                     1. The response should be a team effort, involving managers and often key employees at many levels of the organization.
                     2. Greg Glassman, CrossFit’s chief executive officer should oversee the strategy.
                     3. CrossFit’s chief strategic planning officer, who should report directly to the company’s CEO and board of directors. should oversee the response.
                     4. Because each CrossFit manager has a strategy-making role (ranging from major to minor) for his or her area of responsibility, each should oversee the response strategy.
                     5. CrossFit’s board of directors should oversee the response to approve or disapprove of the strategy formulated and proposed by the company’s management.


109. The strategy-making hierarchy in a diversified company like the Alibaba Group, an e-commerce giant based in China, consists of
                     1. corporate strategy, business strategies, functional strategies, and operating strategies.
                     2. business strategies, functional strategies, and operating strategies.
                     3. its diversification strategy, its line of business strategies, and its operating strategies.
                     4. corporate strategy and a group of business strategies (one for each line of business the corporation has diversified into).
                     5. corporate or managerial strategy, a set of business strategies, and divisional strategies within each business.


110. Crafting and executing a company’s strategy is an ongoing, continuous process that necessitates
                     1. hiring outside consultants to execute any chosen strategy and make coordinated choices about the complete strategy landscape.
                     2. choosing employees who can support the strategy execution and strive for change.
                     3. effectively developing a strategic vision and mission, setting objectives, evaluating performance, and making coordinated choices about the complete strategy landscape
                     4. developing a set of values to safeguard the company from criticism of its practices.
                     5. achieving financial performance outcomes on a regular, sustainable basis regardless of changing conditions in the complete strategy landscape.


111. A company’s broad “macro-environment” refers to
                     1. the industry and competitive arena in which the company operates.
                     2. general economic conditions plus the factors driving change in the markets being served.
                     3. all of the strategically significant forces and factors outside a company’s boundaries—general economic conditions, population demographics, societal values and lifestyles, technological factors, and governmental legislation and regulation.
                     4. the competitive market environment that exists between a company and its competitors.
                     5. the dominant economic features of a company’s industry.


112. The homebuilding industry is not affected by such macro-influences as
                     1. changes in mortgage interest rates, rules, and regulations that make it easier/harder for homebuyers to obtain mortgages.
                     2. trends in household incomes and buying power.
                     3. the distinctive competences of incumbent firms.
                     4. disasters and other unanticipated events in the natural environment.
                     5. shifting preferences of families for renting versus owning a home, and/or homes of various sizes, styles, and price ranges.


113. The macro-environment’s impact on strategic opportunities is unlikely to be exemplified by the following situation?
                     1. Sales of Green Mark and Russian Standard vodkas in the United States dwindle on account of a boycott of Russian products after that country’s invasion of Ukraine.
                     2. Consumer confidence in Wells Fargo Bank drops precipitously because of allegations that Wells Fargo misrepresented its efforts to increase its hiring diversity by interviewing more women and people of color for jobs that were no longer available.
                     3. Hulu squares off with Disney+ as its most potent rival in the streaming television and film industry.
                     4. Traffic increases at the outlets of Whole Foods following its introduction of stores comprised solely of generic products.
                     5. Sales of FitBit surge on account of new features that monitor users’ blood pressure and detects atrial fibrillation.


114. Each of the following exemplifies the impact of the macro-environment on a company’s strategic opportunities except
                     1. Ford and Volkswagen announce a strategic partnership to cooperate on the development of autonomous electric vehicles in order to shorten the development cycle and share the enormous costs of deploying new technologies.
                     2. Samsung, stung by a burgeoning trade war between the United States and China that is impacting the sales of smartphones in both nations, forecasts a 56 percent drop in quarterly operating profits.
                     3. Jeff Bezos’s Amazon Inc. announces plans to launch 3,236 communications satellites, joining in a new space race to offer Internet service from low orbits and squaring off to challenge the fleet of communications satellites planned by Elon Musk’s SpaceX.
                     4. concerned over unfair trade practices and diminishing consumer choices, Great Britain’s competition regulator announces an investigation into a $575 million investment led by Amazon in the London-based food delivery service Deliveroo, one of the top international companies in the business of delivering restaurant meals.
                     5. Manchester, England, craft brewer Seven Brothers partners with the American cereal manufacturer Kellogg’s to create Throw Away I.P.A., a smooth, mellow beer made from Corn Flakes, in an effort to help reduce the amount of greenhouse gas emissions from food wastes.


115. Which of the following is not a factor to consider in identifying an industry’s dominant economic features?
                     1. market size, growth rate, and prospects
                     2. scope of competitive rivalry including geographic area
                     3. market demand-supply conditions
                     4. strength of both driving forces and competitive forces
                     5. role and pace of technological change


116. Which of the following is likely to have the biggest strategy-shaping impact on on-demand transportation providers such as Uber and Lyft?
                     1. Tesla and ZipCar announce a joint venture for electric automobile sharing services.
                     2. Amazon launches a mobile delivery service via drones.
                     3. Apple and Ford launch a global network of autonomous driverless cars, buses, and trucks on demand via a mobile app.
                     4. Greyhound develops and markets a mobile app for customers to purchase intercity bus tickets.
                     5. Yellow Cab company launches mobile app campaigns for community-connection and awareness.


117. Which of the following factors represents the strategically relevant political factors in the macro-environment that will influence the performance of all firms across the board?
                     1. the strength of the federal banking system
                     2. the exogenous forces related to the general environmental demand
                     3. social factors that could fuel a political agenda and create greater transparency
                     4. bailouts and energy policies that are industry-specific
                     5. tax policy, fiscal policy, and tariffs providing impetus for antitrust matters


118. Each of the following exemplifies the impact of the macro-environment on a company’s strategic opportunities except
                     1. Ford and Volkswagen announce a strategic partnership to cooperate on the development of autonomous electric vehicles in order to shorten the development cycle and share the enormous costs of deploying new technologies.
                     2. Samsung, stung by a burgeoning trade war between the United States and China that is impacting the sales of smartphones in both nations, forecasts a 56 percent drop in quarterly operating profits.
                     3. Jeff Bezos’s Amazon.com Inc. announces plans to launch 3,236 communications satellites, joining in a new space race to offer Internet service from low orbits and squaring off to challenge the fleet of communications satellites planned by Elon Musk’s SpaceX.
                     4. concerned over unfair trade practices and diminishing consumer choices, Great Britain’s competition regulator announces an investigation into a $575 million investment led by Amazon in the London-based food delivery service Deliveroo, one of the top international companies in the business of delivering restaurant meals.
                     5. Manchester, England craft brewer Seven Brothers partners with the American cereal manufacturer Kellogg’s to create Throw Away I.P.A., a smooth, mellow beer made from Corn Flakes, in an effort to help reduce the amount of greenhouse gas emissions from food wastes.


119. __________ is the most powerful and widely known tool used to assess the state of competition in an industry.
                     1. PESTEL analysis
                     2. SWOT analysis
                     3. Financial ratio analysis
                     4. Strategic group mapping
                     5. Porter’s Five Force Model.


120. Sonia, the owner of a local consulting business that provides small and medium-sized organizations with hardware and software and support for information systems has asked you to explain the five forces model of industry attractiveness to her. What would not be considered one of the five forces?
                     1. competitive pressures stemming from the threat of rivals entering the information systems industry
                     2. competitive pressures stemming from the relative bargaining power of suppliers to the information systems industry
                     3. competitive pressures coming from the providers of substitute information systems services
                     4. competitive pressures stemming from incremental innovations within the information systems industry
                     5. competitive pressures stemming from existing rival firms in the information systems industry


121. Which of the following is not one of the five typical sources of competitive pressures?
                     1. the power and influence of industry driving forces
                     2. the bargaining power of suppliers and seller-supplier collaboration
                     3. the threat of new entrants into the market
                     4. the attempts of companies in other industries to win customers over to their own substitute products
                     5. the market maneuvering and jockeying for buyer patronage that goes on among rival sellers in the industry


122. The most powerful of the five typical sources of competitive pressures is usually
                     1. the competitive pressures associated with the market maneuvering and jockeying for buyer patronage that goes on among rival sellers in the industry.
                     2. the competitive pressures that stem from the ready availability of attractively priced substitute products.
                     3. the benefits that emerge from close collaboration with suppliers and the competitive pressures that such collaboration creates.
                     4. the bargaining power and leverage that large customers are able to exercise.
                     5. associated with the potential entry of new competitors.


123. When the collective impact of the five competitive forces is rated as moderate to weak
                     1. an industry is said to be competitively unattractive.
                     2. it is the best of all possible worlds for companies with mediocre strategies and second-rate implementation.
                     3. suppliers and customers are in strong bargaining positions, there are plentiful substitutes, and low barriers allow ease of entry to new rivals.
                     4. existing industry members cannot expect to earn good profits and a nice return on investment.
                     5. rivalry among present sellers is intense.


124. Based on an analysis of the five forces that increase or decrease competitive pressures in an industry, in which of the following industries is profitability likely to be lowest?
                     1. oil pipeline transportation
                     2. dine-in pizza restaurants
                     3. natural cosmetics products
                     4. tax preparation software developers
                     5. private banking services


125. Whether buyer bargaining power poses a strong or weak source of competitive pressure on industry members depends in part on
                     1. whether most buyers possess roughly equal or varying degrees of bargaining power.
                     2. how many buyers are engaged in collaborative partnerships with sellers.
                     3. whether entry barriers are high or low.
                     4. whether the overall quality of the items being furnished by industry members is rising or falling.
                     5. whether buyer demand is strong or declining.


126. Competitive pressures stemming from buyer bargaining power tend to be weaker when
                     1. the number of buyers is small, such that each customer’s business tends to be particularly important to a seller.
                     2. buyer demand is growing slowly or maybe even declining.
                     3. the costs incurred by buyers in switching to competing brands or to substitute products are relatively high.
                     4. buyers are well informed about sellers’ products, prices, and costs.
                     5. the buyer group consists of a few large buyers, and the seller group consists of numerous small firms.


127. Which of the following conditions acts to weaken buyer bargaining power?
                     1. when buyers are unlikely to integrate backward into the business of sellers
                     2. when buyers are well informed about sellers’ products, prices, and costs
                     3. when the costs incurred by buyers in switching to competing brands or to substitute products are relatively low
                     4. when buyers have the ability to postpone purchases if they don’t like the prices offered by sellers
                     5. when buyers are few in number and/or often purchase in large quantities


128. Which of the following is not a factor that causes buyer bargaining power to be stronger?
                     1. Some buyers are a threat to integrate backward into the business of sellers.
                     2. The industry is composed of a few large sellers, and the customer group consists of numerous buyers that purchase in fairly small quantities.
                     3. Buyers have considerable discretion over whether and when they purchase the product.
                     4. Buyers are well informed about sellers’ products, prices, and costs.
                     5. The costs incurred by buyers in switching to competing brands or to substitute products are relatively low.


129. Competitive pressures stemming from buyer bargaining power tend to be weakest in which of the following situations?
                     1. Homeowners of newly-constructed homes are forced to switch to induction stovetops due to local restrictions on natural gas hookups.
                     2. There is a global decline in the demand for cable television services.
                     3. Consumers for manicures and pedicures are not price sensitive because these services represent a small portion of their purchasing budget.
                     4. The Internet offers a huge amount of information on a variety of products.
                     5. Heinz owns a metal-can manufacturing subsidiary to cut back on supplier costs.


130. In which of the following circumstances are competitive pressures relatively moderate to weak when associated with the bargaining power of buyers?
                     1. The supply and varieties of ice cream flavors increases during the summer months.
                     2. Consumers can easily compare different cosmetics products prior to purchases over the Internet.
                     3. Apple designs and manufactures its iPhone modem processors rather than buying them from Qualcomm.
                     4. Non-dairy substitutes are usually differentiated only by price.
                     5. Travelers tend to defer rental car leases due to shortages of vehicles.


131. The competitive pressures from substitute products tend to be stronger when
                     1. buyers are relatively comfortable with the quality and performance of substitutes, and the costs to buyers of switching over to the substitutes are low.
                     2. there are more than 10 sellers of substitute products.
                     3. substitutes exhibit the latest in technological innovation.
                     4. buyers have high psychic costs in severing existing brand relationships and establishing new ones.
                     5. demand for the industry’s product is not very price sensitive.


132. Just how strong the competitive pressures are from substitute products depends on
                     1. whether the available substitutes are strongly or weakly differentiated and whether buyers make purchases frequently or infrequently.
                     2. whether attractively priced substitutes are readily available and the ease with which buyers can switch to substitutes.
                     3. whether the available substitutes are products or services.
                     4. whether the producers of substitutes have ample budgets for new-product R&D.
                     5. the speed with which buyer needs and expectations are changing.


133. You have been asked to analyze the major regions of the California wine industry and have observed close relationships between wineries and local hospitality businesses (such as restaurants and lodging facilities) in the regions under study. Those local hospitality businesses can be said to be
                     1. substitutes.
                     2. competitors.
                     3. replacements.
                     4. complementors.
                     5. imitators.


134. In which of the following instances are industry members not subject to stronger competitive pressures from substitute products?
                     1. The costs to buyers of switching over to the substitutes are low.
                     2. Buyers are dubious about using substitutes.
                     3. The quality and performance of the substitutes is well matched to what buyers need to meet their requirements.
                     4. Buyer brand loyalty is weak.
                     5. Substitutes are readily available at competitive prices.


135. Whether supplier-seller relationships in an industry represent a strong or weak source of competitive pressure is a function of
                     1. whether the profits of suppliers are relatively high or low.
                     2. the number of suppliers that each seller/industry member purchases from on average.
                     3. how aggressively rival industry members are trying to differentiate their products.
                     4. the extent to which suppliers can exercise sufficient bargaining power to influence the terms and conditions of supply in their favor and the extent of seller-supplier collaboration in the industry.
                     5. whether the prices of the items being furnished by the suppliers are rising or falling.


136. The bargaining leverage of suppliers is greater when
                     1. only a small number of suppliers exist and when it is difficult for industry members to switch to attractive substitutes.
                     2. industry members incur low costs in switching their purchases from one supplier to another.
                     3. industry members purchase in large quantities and thus are important customers of the suppliers.
                     4. it makes good economic sense for industry members to vertically integrate backward.
                     5. the supplier industry is composed of a large number of relatively small suppliers.


137. In which one of the following instances is supplier bargaining power and leverage not weakened?
                     1. when industry members pose a credible threat of backward integration into the business of suppliers
                     2. when the cost of switching from one supplier to another is low
                     3. when the buying firms purchase in large quantities and thus are important customers of the suppliers
                     4. when the item being supplied is a commodity
                     5. when the items purchased from suppliers are in short supply


138. Which one of the following is not a factor that affects the strength of supplier bargaining power?
                     1. whether needed inputs are in short or ample supply
                     2. whether industry members are a strong threat to integrate backward into the business of suppliers
                     3. whether industry members are struggling to make good profits because of slow-growing market demand
                     4. whether the costs of industry members to switch their purchases to alternative suppliers or substitutes are high or low
                     5. whether the item being supplied is a commodity that is readily available from many suppliers


139. Which one of the following is not a reason why industry members are often motivated to enter into collaborative partnerships with key suppliers?
                     1. to reduce the costs of switching suppliers
                     2. to speed the availability of next-generation components
                     3. to enhance the quality of parts and components being supplied and reduce defect rates
                     4. to squeeze out important cost savings for both themselves and their suppliers
                     5. to reduce inventory and logistics costs


140. In which one of the following instances is supplier bargaining power and leverage not weakened?
                     1. when industry members pose a credible threat of backward integration into the business of suppliers
                     2. when sales to a strategic partner constitute a big percentage of their total sales
                     3. when the items purchased from suppliers are in short supply
                     4. when the buying firms purchase in large quantities and thus are important customers of the suppliers
                     5. when the cost of switching from one supplier to another is low


141. When the collective impact of the five competitive forces is moderate to weak,
                     1. an industry is said to be competitively unattractive.
                     2. it is the best of all possible worlds for companies with mediocre strategies and second-rate implementation.
                     3. suppliers and customers are in strong bargaining positions, there are plentiful substitutes, and low barriers allow ease of entry to new rivals.
                     4. existing industry members cannot expect to earn good profits and a nice return on investment.
                     5. rivalry among present sellers is intense.


142. Which one of the following increases the competitive pressures associated with the threat of entry?
                     1. Incumbent firms are likely to launch competitive initiatives to strongly contest the entry of newcomers.
                     2. Buyers have a high degree of loyalty to the brands and product offerings of existing industry members.
                     3. Buyer demand for the product is growing fairly slowly.
                     4. Few outsiders have the expertise and resources to hurdle whatever entry barriers exist.
                     5. Newcomers can expect to earn attractive profits.


143. A competitive environment characterized by moderate to weak rivalry among sellers, high entry barriers, moderate to weak competition from substitute products, and moderate to low bargaining leverage on the part of both suppliers and customers
                     1. is unlikely to be conducive to achieving high customer loyalty to the company’s brand.
                     2. is considered to be competitively attractive from the standpoint of earning good profits.
                     3. offers incumbent firms the ability to build a sustainable competitive advantage.
                     4. requires that industry members have a strongly differentiated product offering in order to be profitable.
                     5. promises poor prospects for making a reasonable profit and building a sustainable competitive advantage.


144. Which of the following is generally not considered as a barrier to entry?
                     1. rapid market growth
                     2. sizable capital requirements and an array of regulatory requirements
                     3. strong buyer loyalty to existing brands
                     4. sizable economies of scale in production
                     5. difficulties in gaining access to distribution and securing adequate space of retailers’ shelves


145. The best test of whether potential entry is a strong or weak competitive force is
                     1. the strength of buyer loyalty to existing brands.
                     2. whether the industry’s driving forces make it harder or easier for new entrants to be successful.
                     3. whether the strategies of industry members are well matched to the industry’s key success factors.
                     4. whether the industry offers an opportunity for a blue ocean strategy.
                     5. to ask if the industry’s growth and profit prospects are strongly attractive to potential entry candidates.


146. The most powerful of the five competitive forces is usually the
                     1. competitive pressures that stem from the ready availability of attractively priced substitute products.
                     2. competitive pressures associated with rivalry among competing sellers in the industry for buyer patronage.
                     3. competitive pressures that emerge from close collaboration with suppliers.
                     4. competitive pressures associated with the potential entry of new competitors.
                     5. competitive pressures from bargaining power and leverage that large customers are able to exercise.


147. Factors that cause the rivalry among competing sellers to be weak include
                     1. low buyer switching costs and rival sellers that are relatively equal in size and capability.
                     2. rapid growth in buyer demand and high buyer switching costs.
                     3. a recent acquisition of a weak rival by an industry outsider with the intent of turning the acquisition into a major contender.
                     4. low barriers to entry and weakly differentiated products among rival sellers.
                     5. slow growth in buyer demand and strongly differentiated products.


148. Which one of the following represents a potential “weapon” for battling rivals and attracting buyers?
                     1. raise prices
                     2. decrease customer service
                     3. provide high interest rate financing.
                     4. invest in product customization
                     5. reduce advertising


149. Rivalry among competing sellers tends to be less intense when
                     1. industry conditions tempt competitors to use price cuts or other competitive weapons to boost unit sales.
                     2. buyer demand is weak, and many sellers have excess capacity and/or inventory.
                     3. industry rivals are not particularly aggressive in drawing sales and market share away from rivals.
                     4. rivals have diverse strategies and objectives, and are located in different countries.
                     5. rival sellers have weakly differentiated products.


150. Rivalry among competing sellers is generally more intense when
                     1. buyer demand is growing rapidly.
                     2. the industry’s driving forces are strong, and rivals have strongly differentiated products.
                     3. barriers to entry are moderately high, and the pool of likely entry candidates is small.
                     4. industry conditions tempt competitors to use price cuts or other competitive weapons to boost unit volume.
                     5. barriers to entry are high, and buyer switching costs are high.


151. Rivalry among competing firms tends to be more intense when
                     1. demand for the product is growing slowly, one or maybe several industry members become dissatisfied with their market position, buyers have low switching costs, and when strong companies outside the industry acquire weak firms in the industry and launch aggressive moves to build market share.
                     2. the products/services of rival sellers are strongly differentiated, and buyer demand is strong.
                     3. rivals are relatively content with their market position.
                     4. there are so many industry rivals that the impact of any one company’s actions is spread thinly across all industry members.
                     5. there are fewer firms in the industry that have unequal market shares.


152. A competitive environment in which there is weak to moderate rivalry among sellers, high entry barriers, weak competition from substitute products, and little bargaining leverage on the part of both suppliers and customers
                     1. lacks powerful driving forces.
                     2. gives each industry competitor the best potential for building sustainable competitive advantage.
                     3. makes it hard for industry members to pursue a differentiation strategy.
                     4. is conducive to industry members earning attractive profits.
                     5. requires that industry members have low costs.


153. A competitive environment in which there is strong rivalry among sellers, low entry barriers, strong competition from substitute products, and considerable bargaining leverage on the part of both suppliers and customers
                     1. is competitively unattractive from the standpoint of earning good profits.
                     2. offers little ability to build a sustainable competitive advantage.
                     3. is highly conducive to achieving strong product differentiation and high brand loyalty.
                     4. offers moderate to good prospects for achieving low costs and building a sustainable competitive advantage.
                     5. requires that industry members have a strongly differentiated product offering in order to be profitable.


154. The collective impact of the five competitive forces on competitive pressures tends to
                     1. strengthen the industry’s driving forces.
                     2. lower the combined profitability of industry members.
                     3. make it difficult to achieve a competitive advantage via anything other than being the industry’s low-cost leader.
                     4. increase the opportunities for industry incumbents to attain a competitive advantage.
                     5. raise the number of industry key success factors.


155. Based on an analysis of the five forces that increase or decrease competitive pressures in an industry, in which of the following industries is profitability likely to be lowest?
                     1. pizza restaurants
                     2. wireless lighting systems.
                     3. delivery services using drones
                     4. wearable fitness and health monitors
                     5. pharmaceuticals


156. Based on an analysis of the five forces that increase or decrease competitive pressures in an industry, in which of the following industries is profitability likely to be highest?
                     1. video-streaming services
                     2. supermarkets
                     3. commercial airlines
                     4. electric and gas utilities
                     5. tire manufacturing


157. Which of the following is a “driving force” capable of producing fundamental changes in industry and competitive conditions?
                     1. changes in interest rates
                     2. contraction of the labor force
                     3. mounting competition from substitutes and increasing efforts to collaborate with suppliers via strategic alliances
                     4. low levels of innovation
                     5. changes in the long-term industry growth rate


158. Industry conditions change
                     1. because of such powerful driving forces as swings in buyer demand, changing interest rates, ups and downs in the economy, and higher/lower entry barriers.
                     2. because of newly emerging industry threats and industry opportunities that alter the composition of the industry’s strategic groups.
                     3. because new industry key success factors emerge.
                     4. because forces create pressures or incentives for industry participants (competitors, customers, suppliers) to alter their actions in important ways.
                     5. chiefly because of changes in the barriers to entry and the degree of competition from substitute products.


159. Steps involved in driving-forces analysis include
                     1. developing a comprehensive list of all the potential causes of changing industry conditions.
                     2. predicting which new driving forces will emerge next.
                     3. determining which of the five competitive forces is the biggest driver of industry change.
                     4. identifying the driving forces, assessing whether their impact will make the industry more or less attractive, and determining what strategy changes are needed to prepare for the impact of the driving forces.
                     5. discerning which among the five competitive forces is most potent and which is least potent.


160. Driving-forces analysis
                     1. involves identifying the driving forces, assessing whether their impact will make the industry more or less attractive, and determining what strategy changes a company may need to make to prepare for the impact of the driving forces.
                     2. identifies which strategic group is the most powerful.
                     3. helps managers identify which industry member is likely to become (or remain) the industry leader and why.
                     4. helps managers identify which key success factors are most likely to help their company gain a competitive advantage.
                     5. helps managers identify which of the five competitive forces will be the strongest driver of industry change.


161. The real payoff of driving-forces analysis is to help managers understand
                     1. what strategy changes are needed to prepare for the impacts of the driving forces.
                     2. the overall strength of the five competitive forces.
                     3. whether the industry’s strategic group map will be static or dynamic.
                     4. what conditions exist in the economy at large.
                     5. the extent to which rivals have more than two competitively valuable competencies or capabilities.


162. Which of the following are most unlikely to qualify as driving forces?
                     1. changes in the long-term industry growth rate, the entry or exit of major firms, and changes in cost and efficiency
                     2. increasing globalization of the industry and product innovation
                     3. new Internet technology applications, new government regulations, and significant changes in government policy toward the industry
                     4. mounting competition from substitutes and increasing efforts to collaborate with suppliers via strategic alliances
                     5. changes in who buys the industry’s product and how they use it


163. Which of the following do not qualify as potential driving forces capable of inducing fundamental changes in industry and competitive conditions?
                     1. changes in who buys the product and how they use it, changes in the long-term industry growth rate, and changes in cost and efficiency
                     2. entry or exit of major firms, product innovation, and marketing innovation
                     3. increases in the economic power and bargaining leverage of customers and suppliers, growing supplier-seller collaboration, and growing buyer-seller collaboration
                     4. diffusion of technical know-how and changing societal concerns, attitudes, and lifestyles
                     5. changes in manufacturing processes brought on by technological change, increasing globalization of the industry, and new Internet capabilities


164. Which one of the following is not a common type of driving force?
                     1. entry or exit of major firms
                     2. changing societal concerns, attitudes, and lifestyles
                     3. diffusion of technical know-how across more companies and more countries
                     4. increasing efforts on the part of industry members to collaborate closely with their suppliers
                     5. technological change and manufacturing process innovation


165. An industry’s driving forces
                     1. are generally determined by competitive pressures, the sizes of strategic groups, and the power of rival firms’ competitive strategies.
                     2. generally act in ways that will strengthen or weaken market demand, make competition more or less intense, and lead to higher or lower industry profitability.
                     3. frequently cause a leveling off of industry growth and a reduction in the bargaining power of buyers.
                     4. are normally triggered by ups and downs in the economy, higher or lower inflation rates, higher or lower interest rates, or important new strategic alliances.
                     5. can be triggered by such factors as growing competitive pressures from substitute products, greater seller-supplier collaboration, and the efforts of rival firms to employ new or different offensive strategies.


166. Increasing globalization can be a driving force in an industry because
                     1. market growth rates go up, product innovation speeds up, and new firms are likely to enter the industry.
                     2. companies need to spread their operating reach into more and more country markets to meet consumer demand and take advantage of available operating activities.
                     3. foreign producers typically have lower costs, greater technological expertise, and more product innovation capabilities than domestic firms.
                     4. the products and services of foreign competitors are nearly always cheaper or of better quality than those of domestic companies.
                     5. it results in companies having fewer competitors and a strategic group map with fewer circles.


167. What is the most appropriate analytical tool for revealing the different market or competitive positions that rival firms occupy in an industry?
                     1. strategic group mapping
                     2. PESTEL analysis
                     3. five forces framework
                     4. SWOT analysis
                     5. competitor analysis


168. With the aid of a strategic group map for the pizza segment of the food service industry, one can
                     1. identify easily the entry and exit barriers for each strategic group and intersegment competition with other casual restaurants.
                     2. pinpoint precisely which pizza restaurants are in profitable strategic groups and which are not.
                     3. identify which competitive forces are strong and which are weak for pizza restaurants.
                     4. measure accurately whether across-group rivalry among pizza establishments is stronger than within-group rivalry, and vice versa.
                     5. reveal which pizza establishments are close competitors and which are distant rivals, and that not all positions on the map are equally attractive.


169. You are considering starting a business to provide high quality bookkeeping services targeted to restaurants and other food service providers in your region. Which factors would you evaluate to determine whether or not the food service industry offers good prospects for attractive profits?
                     1. the industry’s growth potential, whether competition appears destined to become stronger or weaker, how the industry’s driving forces might affect overall industry profitability, the company’s competitive position relative to rivals, and the company’s proficiency in performing industry key success factors
                     2. an assessment of which firms in the industry have the best and worst competitive strategies, whether the number of strategic groups in the industry is increasing or decreasing, and whether economies of scale and experience curve effects are a key success factor
                     3. whether there are more than five key success factors, more than five barriers to entry, and more than five industry drivers
                     4. whether the market leaders enjoy competitive advantages and how difficult it is to promote innovation to develop a strongly differentiated product or service for which a price premium may be charged
                     5. constructing a strategic group map and assessing the attractiveness of the competitive position of each strategic group


170. One of the things that can be gleaned from a strategic group map of industry rivals is
                     1. which rivals have been in business longer and thus have greater access to experience curve effects.
                     2. which rivals have newer manufacturing facilities and thus have achieved greater product quality.
                     3. which strategic groups have the highest profit margins and the highest customer switching costs and thus represent key operating characteristics.
                     4. which strategic groups are currently being shunned by customers because of high prices and relatively low product quality.
                     5. that some strategic groups are more favorably positioned than others because they confront weaker competitive forces and/or because they are more favorably impacted by industry driving forces.


171. You have been asked by your manager at E.L.F. Beauty to provide up-to-date competitive intelligence about rivals’ strategies and moves to improve their situation in the cosmetics industry. Good competitive intelligence is important at E.L.F. Beauty because
                     1. it identifies who the cosmetics industry’s current market share leaders are.
                     2. it allows E.L.F. Beauty to anticipate what moves its rivals are likely to make next and to craft its own strategic moves with some confidence.
                     3. it helps identify which of at E.L.F. Beauty’s rivals is in which strategic group.
                     4. it enables E.L.F. Beauty’s company managers to determine which rival has the worst strategy and how to avoid repeating the same strategic errors.
                     5. it enables more accurate predictions about how long it will take a particular rival in the cosmetics industry to copy most of what the industry leader, Ulta Beauty, is doing.


172. Not all positions on a strategic group map are equally attractive because
                     1. entry and exit barriers are different for each strategic group.
                     2. key success factors are usually quite different for differently positioned industry participants.
                     3. small strategic groups are always less profitable than large strategic groups.
                     4. across-group rivalry is strongest at the outer edges of the strategic group map.
                     5. industry driving forces and competitive pressures favor some companies or groups and hurt others, and the profit potential of different strategic groups varies because of strengths and weaknesses in each strategic group’s position.


173. The payoff of good scouting reports on rivals is improved ability to
                     1. predict what strategic moves rivals are likely to make next, thereby allowing a company to prepare defensive countermoves and develop strategies to exploit rivals’ missteps.
                     2. determine which rivals are in the best strategic group.
                     3. figure out how many key success factors a rival has.
                     4. determine whether a rival is gaining or losing market share, whether rivals are increasing or decreasing R&D spending, and what new marketing promotions are in the works.
                     5. determine whether a rival has the best strategy and is the industry leader.


174. Having good competitive intelligence about rivals’ strategies, latest actions and announcements, resource strengths and weaknesses, and moves to improve their situation is important because it
                     1. identifies who the industry’s current market share leaders are.
                     2. helps a company to anticipate what moves rivals are likely to make next and to craft its own strategic moves.
                     3. helps identify which rival is in which strategic group.
                     4. enables company managers to determine which rival has the worst strategy and how to avoid making the same strategy mistakes.
                     5. enables more accurate predictions about how long it will take a particular rival to copy most of what the strategy leader is doing.


175. Andrea, the COO of a wine country luxury tourist train business, has been asked to present her company with an evaluation of strong prospects for attractive profits. What would she normally not include in her analysis?
                     1. the industry’s growth potential
                     2. whether industry profitability will be favorably or unfavorably affected by the prevailing driving forces
                     3. the industry’s opportunities for international expansion
                     4. how well the company’s strategy delivers on the industry’s key success factors
                     5. whether the company occupies a stronger market position than rivals


176. Audrey and Javier are co-owners off five specialty cupcake and dessert bakeries in their region. Which of the following questions would not help them to predict the next strategic moves and countermoves of their rivals?
                     1. How frequently does their rival fulfill special orders for custom cupcakes and how large are those special orders?
                     2. How does the rival manage door-to-door deliveries at no extra cost?
                     3. What percentage of customers frequent the rival’s store?
                     4. Why are the rival’s cupcakes so popular among customers?
                     5. Which mode of transport does the rival’s supplier use?


177. The key success factors in an industry
                     1. are the strategy elements, intangible assets, and competitive capabilities that most affect industry members’ abilities to prosper in the marketplace.
                     2. are determined by the industry’s driving forces.
                     3. hinge on how many different strategic groups the industry has.
                     4. depend on how many rivals are trying to move from one strategic group to another.
                     5. are a function of such considerations as how many firms are in the industry, how many have market shares above five percent, and whether the business models being used are similar or diverse.


178. An industry’s key success factors
                     1. are a function of market share, entry barriers, economies of scale, degree of vertical integration, and industry profitability.
                     2. vary according to whether an industry has high or low long-term attractiveness.
                     3. can be determined through identifying an industry’s dominant economic characteristics, assessing the five competitive forces, considering the impacts of the driving forces, comparing the market positions of industry members, and forecasting the likely next moves of industry rivals.
                     4. can be determined from studying the “winning” strategies of the industry leaders and ruling out as potential key success factors the strategy elements of those firms considered to have “losing” strategies.
                     5. depend on the relative competitive strengths of the industry leaders and how vulnerable they are to competitive attack.


179. In identifying an industry’s key success factors, strategists should
                     1. try to single out all factors that play a major role in shaping whether buyer demand grows rapidly or slowly.
                     2. consider on what basis customers choose between competing brands, what resources and competitive capabilities firms need to be competitively successful, and what shortcomings are almost certain to put a company at a significant competitive disadvantage.
                     3. consider whether the number of strategic groups is increasing or decreasing and whether the five competitive forces are powerful or relatively weak.
                     4. consider what it will take to overtake the company with the industry’s overall best strategy.
                     5. focus their attention on what it will take to capitalize on impacts of the industry’s driving forces.


180. Which of the following is not a good example of a marketing-related key success factor?
                     1. high utilization of fixed assets
                     2. a well-known and well-respected brand name
                     3. breadth of product line and product selection
                     4. clever advertising
                     5. courteous, personalized customer service


181. Which of the following is a good example of a manufacturing-related key success factor?
                     1. global distribution capabilities
                     2. high labor productivity (especially if the production process has high labor content)
                     3. low distribution costs
                     4. accurate filling of buyer orders
                     5. short delivery time capability


182. Which of the following factors should a company consider when determining if an industry offers good prospects for attractive profits?
                     1. the industry’s growth potential, whether competition appears destined to become stronger or weaker, how the industry’s driving forces might affect overall industry profitability, the company’s competitive position relative to rivals, and the company’s proficiency in performing industry key success factors
                     2. an assessment of which firms in the industry have the best and worst competitive strategies, whether the number of strategic groups in the industry is increasing or decreasing, and whether economies of scale and experience curve effects are a key success factor
                     3. whether there are more than five key success factors and more than five barriers to entry
                     4. constructing a strategic group map and assessing the attractiveness of the competitive position of each strategic group
                     5. whether the market leaders enjoy competitive advantages and how hard it is to develop a strongly differentiated product


183. Which of the following factors should Gorilla Gourmet, a Michigan-based company developing a fleet of food trucks that will operate solely in college towns, consider when determining if the food-truck industry offers good prospects for attractive profits?
                     1. whether there are more than five key success factors, more than five barriers to entry, and more than five industry drivers for food-truck operators
                     2. an assessment of which rival food-truck businesses in the industry have the best and worst competitive strategies, whether the number of strategic groups in the industry is increasing or decreasing, and whether economies of scale and experience curve effects are a key success factor
                     3. the industry’s growth potential, whether competition appears destined to become stronger or weaker, how the industry’s driving forces might affect overall industry profitability, the company’s competitive position relative to rivals, and the company’s proficiency in performing industry key success factors
                     4. whether the market leaders in food trucks enjoy competitive advantages and how difficult it is to promote innovation to develop a strongly differentiated product or service for which a price premium may be charged
                     5. constructing a strategic group map of the food-truck industry and assessing the attractiveness of the competitive position of each strategic group


184. Evaluating whether an industry presents a sufficiently attractive business opportunity usually does not involve a consideration of which of the following factors?
                     1. the industry’s growth potential
                     2. whether competitive pressures will likely grow stronger or weaker
                     3. whether the industry’s future profitability will be favorably or unfavorably affected by the prevailing driving forces
                     4. the company’s competitive position in the industry and its ability to perform industry key success factors
                     5. whether the industry’s product is strongly or weakly differentiated


185. Which of the following factors usually is not a consideration involved with evaluating whether an industry presents a sufficiently attractive business opportunity?
                     1. constructing a strategic group map to assess the attractiveness of the competitive position of each strategic group to determine the overall attractiveness of all the strategic groups
                     2. using value chain analysis to determine the relative cost positions of rival firms and who is the industry’s lowest-cost producer
                     3. determining which firms in the industry have a competitive advantage and how they attained their advantage
                     4. determining the industry outlook for future profitability
                     5. determining the overall strength of the five competitive forces


186. Which of the following factors was probably the most important consideration in Uber’s decision to purchase Postmates, with respect to whether or not the meal delivery services industry presented a sufficiently attractive business opportunity?
                     1. constructing a strategic group map to assess the attractiveness of the competitive position of each strategic group to determine the overall attractiveness of all the strategic groups in the food delivery industry
                     2. using value chain analysis to determine the relative cost positions of rival firms in the food delivery industry and who is the industry’s lowest-cost producer
                     3. determining which firms in in the food delivery industry have a competitive advantage and how they attained their advantage
                     4. determining the overall strength of the five competitive forces shaping the food delivery industry
                     5. determining the outlook for future profitability in the food delivery industry


187. Aleida, the COO of a gourmet food-truck business that specializes in Spanish cuisine such as paella and tapas, has been asked to present her company’s investors with an evaluation of strong prospects for attractive profits. What would she normally exclude from her analysis?
                     1. whether or not food-truck industry profitability will be impacted by the prevailing driving forces
                     2. whether or not the food-truck industry is impacted by changes in the macro-environment
                     3. whether or not her gourmet food-truck company can deliver on the industry’s key success factors
                     4. whether or not the food-truck industry’s opportunities for international expansion are promising
                     5. whether or not the company occupies a stronger market position than rivals


188. Amazon Prime Video, Apple, Disney+, and Netflix have increased bargaining power over content providers (suppliers) because they
                     1. are well-informed about competing sellers’ products, prices, and costs to stream videos.
                     2. have the option to delay their purchases of streaming content.
                     3. are large and few in number relative to the number of sellers in the video-streaming industry.
                     4. have integrated backward into the business of producing film and video content for their streaming portals.
                     5. are producing standardized content for their video-streaming services.


189. The COVID-19 pandemic and other societal shocks are not considered to be among the principal components of strategic significance in the PESTEL analysis because they are
                     1. associated with anticipated sociocultural forces that include societal values, attitudes, cultural factors, and lifestyles that impact business.
                     2. caused by political factors including the extent to which government intervenes in the economy in an ongoing manner.
                     3. much harder for companies to anticipate and prepare for because they often begin with little warning.
                     4. the result of technological factors that include the pace of change and technical developments that have the potential for improving society.
                     5. dictated by foreseeable economic conditions that include the general economic climate and specific factors such as interest rates, inflation rate, and unemployment rate, as well as conditions in the stock and bond markets that can affect consumer confidence.


190. Excluded from the principal components of strategic significance in the PESTEL analysis are
                     1. caused by political factors including the extent to which government intervenes in the economy in an ongoing manner.
                     2. dictated by foreseeable economic conditions that include the general economic climate and specific factors such as interest rates, inflation rate, and unemployment rate, as well as conditions in the stock and bond markets that can affect consumer confidence.
                     3. associated with anticipated sociocultural forces that include societal values, attitudes, cultural factors, and lifestyles that impact business.
                     4. the result of technological factors that include the pace of change and technical developments that have the potential for improving society.
                     5. societal shocks such as those from acts of terrorism, civil war, foreign invasion or occupation, epidemics and pandemics that can affect different industries and companies to varying degrees that are much harder for companies to anticipate and prepare for because they often begin with little warning.


191. Sonya, the owner of a local fitness gym, Body Rx, has provided you with a free one-year membership if you can explain the five forces model of industry attractiveness to her. What would you advise her to eliminate from her consideration of the five forces in the fitness industry?
                     1. competitive pressures from the threat of new rivals entering the fitness industry
                     2. competitive pressures from the relative bargaining power of suppliers to the fitness industry
                     3. competitive pressures from the providers of at-home fitness workouts and equipment
                     4. competitive pressures from the relative bargaining power of buyers of gym memberships
                     5. competitive pressures from changes in local and state laws governing employment practices and minimum wages


192. The best indicator of how well a company like Amazon’s or Walmart’s current strategy is working entails an analysis of
                     1. whether either company is remaining attentive to possible improvements in its functional areas, creating “stretch” business goals, and providing a product-focused value proposition to customers. preferences for capacity maximization.
                     2. whether either company is falling short of its stated financial objectives, i.e., its financial performance is well below the industry average, and its market share gains reflect short-term.
                     3. whether either company is achieving its stated financial and strategic objectives, its financial performance is above the industry average, and it is gaining customers and increasing its market share.
                     4. whether either company has been foregoing initiatives designed to build market share and to create “stretch” business goals.
                     5. whether either company is undertaking new initiatives to promote corporate social responsibility.


193. The best indicator of how well a company like Amazon’s or Walmart’s current strategy is working entails an analysis of
                     1. whether either company is remaining attentive to possible improvements in its functional areas, creating “stretch” business goals, and providing a product-focused value proposition to customers. preferences for capacity maximization.
                     2. whether either company is falling short of its stated financial objectives, i.e., its financial performance is well below the industry average, and its market share gains reflect short-term.
                     3. whether either company is achieving its stated financial and strategic objectives, its financial performance is above the industry average, and it is gaining customers and increasing its market share.
                     4. whether either company has been foregoing initiatives designed to build market share and to create “stretch” business goals.
                     5. whether either company is undertaking new initiatives to promote corporate social responsibility.


194. One important indicator of how well a company’s present strategy is working is whether
                     1. it is customarily a first-mover in introducing new or improved products (a good sign) or a late-mover (a bad sign).
                     2. its strategy is built around at least two of the industry’s key success factors.
                     3. the company is achieving its financial and strategic objectives and whether it is an above-average industry performer.
                     4. it has been able to create new industry demand through the use of a blue ocean strategy.
                     5. it is subject to weaker competitive forces and pressures than close rivals (a good sign) or stronger competitive forces and pressures (a bad sign).


195. Benchmarking how well a company’s current strategy is working (companies like Nestlé or W. L. Gore) involves
                     1. determining whether the company is falling short of its stated financial objectives, i.e., its financial performance is well below the industry average, and its market share gains reflect short-term preferences for capacity maximization.
                     2. ascertaining whether the company is achieving its stated financial and strategic objectives, its financial performance is above the industry average, and it is gaining customers and increasing its market share.
                     3. assessing whether the company is remaining attentive to possible improvements in its functional areas, creating “stretch” business goals, and providing a product-focused value proposition to customers.
                     4. verifying whether the company is undertaking new initiatives to promote corporate social responsibility.
                     5. discovering whether the company has been foregoing initiatives designed to build market share and to promote corporate responsibility.


196. Consider if you were hired to conduct a review of how effectively Tesla Motors’ current strategy is working. What aspect of your review would be considered irrelevant?
                     1. whether the company’s sales are growing faster, slower, or about the same pace as the industry as a whole, thus resulting in a rising, falling, or stable market share
                     2. whether it has a larger number of competitive assets than competitive liabilities and whether it has a superior quality product
                     3. the firm’s image and reputation with its customers
                     4. whether its profit margins are rising or falling and how large its margins are relative to those of its rivals
                     5. evidence of improvement in internal processes such as defect rate, order fulfillment, delivery times, days of inventory, and employee productivity


197. A resource-based strategy
                     1. is often based on cross-department combinations of intellectual capital and expertise.
                     2. uses a company’s valuable and rare resources and competitive capabilities to deliver value to customers that rivals have difficulty matching.
                     3. is typically based on a stand-alone resource strength such as technological expertise.
                     4. refers to a company’s most efficiently executed value chain activity.
                     5. uses industry key success factors to provide a company with a core competence that rivals cannot effectively imitate.


198. A resource-based strategy
                     1. focuses on exploiting a company’s best-executed operating strategy.
                     2. is based upon efficient performance of the company’s primary value chain activities.
                     3. concentrates on minimizing the costs associated with the design of a product or service.
                     4. attempts to exploit resources in a manner that offers value to customers in ways rivals are unable to match.
                     5. focuses on working with forward channel allies to develop capabilities to outmatch the capabilities of rivals.


199. A company’s resources and capabilities represent
                     1. the firm’s net working capital and related determinants for measuring operating performance and capabilities.
                     2. positive trends with relevant cultural factors related to buyers’ choices and product modifications.
                     3. management’s source of funding for new strategic initiatives.
                     4. whether or not the firm has the industry’s most efficient value chain.
                     5. the firm’s competitive assets that determine its competitiveness and ability to succeed in the marketplace.


200. If you were asked to use a powerful analytical tool to size up Amazon’s competitive assets and determine whether the company can provide the foundation necessary for its competitive success in the marketplace, which would you choose?
                     1. VRIN tests
                     2. SWOT analysis
                     3. competitive strength matrix analysis
                     4. financial and asset management analysis
                     5. value chain analysis


201. Nestlé’s brand management capabilities for its 2.000+ food, beverage, and pet care brands
                     1. are known as productive inputs or competitive assets, except human assets and intellectual capital, which are considered capabilities or competencies.
                     2. are representative of physical resources only.
                     3. are part of an inventory or collection of the firm’s strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats.
                     4. are categorized as its tangible resources and/or intangible resources.
                     5. are intangible resources only, because they consist of patents, copyrights, and technological processes.


202. The competitive power of a company resource depends on
                     1. whether it helps differentiate a company’s product offering from the product offerings of rival firms.
                     2. whether the resource is really competitively valuable, if it is rare and something competitors lack, how hard it is to copy or imitate, and how easily it can be trumped by the substitute resource strengths and competitive capabilities of rivals.
                     3. whether customers are aware of the resource and view it positively enough to boost the company’s brand name reputation.
                     4. whether the resource is something rivals are unable to perform, if it is an important differentiating product or service feature, how strongly it contributes to the company’s brand image, and if it is the foundation of a cost-based advantage.
                     5. whether the resource is technology-based or based on superior marketing know-how.


203. Warby Parker is an online retailer of prescription eyewear. Warby Parker’s capabilities in market research and engineering as well as the company’s relations with suppliers and manufacturing companies are considered
                     1. Warby Parker’s resources to competently perform some internal activity.
                     2. Warby Parker’s core competence.
                     3. by Warby Parker as resources or some combination of those resources.
                     4. a competitively valuable resource for Warby Parker.
                     5. cross-functional capabilities for Warby Parker that draw on a number of different kinds of resources and are multidimensional in nature.


204. The competitive power of a company resource or competitive capability hinges on
                     1. how easy it is for the firm to copy or imitate its rivals’ moves in the marketplace.
                     2. whether it is robust and, therefore, something rivals cannot afford to develop.
                     3. whether it leads to competitive volatility forcing rivals to jockey for an industry leadership position.
                     4. how easily it can be substituted by merging with or acquiring another firm with complementary resources and capabilities.
                     5. whether it is rare and, therefore, something rivals lack.


205. For a particular company resource to have meaningful competitive power and perhaps qualify as a basis for competitive advantage, it should
                     1. be competitively important, hard for competitors to copy or imitate, rare and something rivals lack, and not be easily trumped by the substitute resources/capabilities of rivals.
                     2. be something that a company does internally rather than in collaborative arrangements with outsiders.
                     3. be patentable.
                     4. be rooted in the company’s organizational capital, information capital, or human capital.
                     5. have the potential for lowering the firm’s unit costs.


206. A company that lacks a stand-alone resource that is competitively powerful may attempt to develop a competitive advantage through
                     1. improved employee training programs, new marketing promotions, or technological enhancements to production processes.
                     2. the development of a new business strategy that draws upon existing resource strengths.
                     3. extensive strategic planning and resource identification sessions involving managers at all levels of the organization.
                     4. bundled resources that enable superior performance of cross-functional capabilities that can be leveraged to support its business model and strategy.
                     5. devising clever approaches to turning resource weaknesses into resource strengths.


207. Organizational capabilities are virtually always
                     1. more complex than resources and are exercised only through key personnel.
                     2. requiring constant evaluation to ensure cooperative support from management.
                     3. easier and less challenging to categorize than resources because there are fewer to be concerned about.
                     4. knowledge-based.
                     5. reflective of the industry’s driving forces.


208. A company that is at a disadvantage in the marketplace because it lacks competitively valuable resources possessed by rivals
                     1. should consider divesting assets and making future investments in promising new industries.
                     2. may be able to develop substitute resources that accomplish the same objective as the competitively valuable resource possessed by rivals.
                     3. can still marshal competitive power in the marketplace by incorporating product or service features desired by niche buyers.
                     4. is virtually blockaded from using offensive strategies and must rely on defensive strategies.
                     5. should abandon strategy elements that have caused its weakness in the marketplace.


209. The four tests of a resource’s competitive power are often referred to as the
                     1. organizational capability metric analysis.
                     2. SWOT analysis.
                     3. competitive advantage sustainability test.
                     4. SCIR test, which asks if a resource is sustainable, competitive, internalized, and reproducible.
                     5. VRIN test, which asks if a resource is “valuable, rare, inimitable, and nonsubstitutable.”


210. When a company is good at performing a particular internal activity, it is said to have a
                     1. competitive advantage over rivals.
                     2. competitive capability.
                     3. distinctive competence.
                     4. resource-based strategy.
                     5. competence.


211. The difference between a resource and a capability is that
                     1. a resource refers to a company’s best-executed functional strategy, and a capability refers to a company’s best-executed business strategy.
                     2. a resource refers to a company’s most strategically important asset, whereas a capability refers to the basis of a company’s competitive advantage over rivals.
                     3. a resource is a competitively relevant internal activity that a firm performs especially well relative to other internal activities, whereas a capability is a competitively important activity performed by key strategic allies.
                     4. a resource represents a competitive asset that is owned or controlled by the company, whereas a capability is a competently performed internal activity that is developed through the deployment of the company’s resources.
                     5. a resource usually resides in a company’s technology and physical assets (state-of-the-art plants and equipment, attractive real estate locations, and so on), whereas a capability usually resides in a company’s human capital, information capital, or organizational capital.


212. Which of the following is not a good example of a company’s resources?
                     1. having a lower cost value chain than key rivals
                     2. having a well-known brand name and enjoying the confidence of customers
                     3. having more intellectual capital and better e-commerce capabilities than key rivals
                     4. having higher earnings per share and a higher stock price than key rivals
                     5. having fruitful partnerships or alliances with suppliers that reduce costs and/or enhance product quality and performance


213. Every organization has many resources, capabilities, and routines; however, those few things the company does really well and performs with a very high proficiency are termed
                     1. core competencies.
                     2. distinct capabilities.
                     3. sustainable activities.
                     4. socially complex activities.
                     5. distributive factors.


214. Which of the following is not a tangible resource?
                     1. technological assets
                     2. physical assets
                     3. financial assets
                     4. organizational resources
                     5. a company’s reputation for integrity and quality products


215. Imitation by rivals is most challenging when
                     1. resources are unique.
                     2. resources must be built over time.
                     3. capabilities reflect a high level of social complexity and causal ambiguity.
                     4. resources and capabilities require a high level of capital investment.
                     5. resources and capabilities are accessible and require low levels of investment.


216. Which one of the following is a tangible resource?
                     1. know-how and experience-based learning
                     2. brand, image, and reputation
                     3. relationships
                     4. company culture
                     5. financial capital


217. Which one of the following is not an intangible resource?
                     1. human assets and intellectual capital
                     2. technological assets
                     3. brand, image, and reputation
                     4. relationships
                     5. company culture


218. Zara is a fast-fashion company. Zara’s dynamic capability is manifested by its ability to
                     1. copy rivals’ existing resources and capabilities.
                     2. upgrade its R&D resources to drive product innovation.
                     3. rapidly delete obsolete resources and capabilities from its competitive asset portfolio.
                     4. retain degraded resources when acquiring new capabilities is too costly or time-consuming.
                     5. keep antiquated resources by disregarding its innovative capabilities.


219. Which of the following is not an example of a company’s dynamic capability?
                     1. Petsmart’s ability to remain a “big-box, bricks and mortar” retailer
                     2. Facebook’s ability to upgrade its messaging services to feature real-time video chat
                     3. Tesla’s ability to introduce less costly and yet more technologically advanced automobiles
                     4. Amazon’s ability to expedite its delivery services using drone aircraft
                     5. ESPN’s ability to deliver live games via video streaming services


220. An example of an internal competitive liability that can impact a company like Google’s future profitability is
                     1. unfavorable demographic shifts.
                     2. introduction of restrictive trade policies in countries where the company does business.
                     3. adverse changes in foreign exchange rates.
                     4. lack of a distinctive competence.
                     5. potential of a hostile takeover.


221. A first-rate SWOT analysis
                     1. is a way to measure whether a company’s value chain is longer or shorter than the chains of key rivals.
                     2. is a tool for benchmarking whether a firm’s strategy is closely matched to industry key success factors.
                     3. reveals whether a company is competitively stronger than its closest rivals.
                     4. provides a good basis for crafting a strategy.
                     5. identifies the reasons a company’s strategy is or is not working very well.


222. If you were conducting a SWOT analysis for a textbook publisher, which of the following steps would you omit from your SWOT analysis?
                     1. benchmarking the textbook publisher’s resource strengths and competitive capabilities against industry key success factors
                     2. matching the textbook publisher’s strategy to its resource strengths and market opportunities, correcting problematic weaknesses, and defending against worrisome threats
                     3. identifying the textbook publisher’s resource weaknesses
                     4. drawing conclusions about the textbook publisher’s overall business situation
                     5. identifying the textbook publisher’s market opportunities


223. The most important parts of conducting a SWOT analysis are
                     1. listing a company’s resource strengths and competitive capabilities.
                     2. identifying the company’s resource strengths and competitive capabilities, external market opportunities, and threats to its well-being.
                     3. creating a table with four lists for company managers to evaluate.
                     4. drawing conclusions about the company’s overall business situation and translating these conclusions into strategic actions.
                     5. tabulating a company’s resource strengths and market opportunities, problematic weaknesses, and worrisome threats.


224. Which of the following most accurately reflect a company’s resource strengths?
                     1. its core competencies, competitive capabilities, and valuable intangible assets
                     2. sizes of its unit sales, revenues, and market share vis-à-vis those of key rivals
                     3. sizes of its profit margins and return on investment vis-à-vis those of key rivals
                     4. whether it has more primary activities in its value chain than close rivals and a better overall value chain than these rivals
                     5. whether it has a more profitable business model than close rivals


225. A company resource weakness or competitive deficiency
                     1. represents a problem that needs to be turned into a strength because weaknesses prevent a firm from being a winner in the marketplace.
                     2. causes the company to fall into a lower strategic group than it otherwise could compete in.
                     3. prevents a company from having a distinctive competence.
                     4. usually stems from having a missing link or links in the industry value chain.
                     5. is something a company lacks or does poorly (in comparison to rivals) or a condition that puts it at a disadvantage in the marketplace.


226. A company’s resource weaknesses can relate to
                     1. inferior or unproven skills, lack of expertise, or intellectual capital shortfalls in competitively important parts of the business.
                     2. something that it lacks or does poorly (in comparison to rivals).
                     3. deficiencies in competitively important physical, organizational, or intangible assets.
                     4. missing or competitively inferior capabilities in key areas.
                     5. inability to achieve a leading market share.


227. Sizing up a company’s overall resource strengths and weaknesses
                     1. essentially involves constructing a “strategic balance sheet” on which the company’s resource strengths represent competitive assets and its resource weaknesses represent competitive liabilities.
                     2. is the same process as benchmarking.
                     3. is called competitive strength assessment.
                     4. is focused on making lists of a company’s resource strengths and weaknesses.
                     5. is called company resource mapping.


228. The external market opportunities that are most relevant to a company are the ones that
                     1. increase market share.
                     2. reinforce its overall business strategy.
                     3. match up well with the firm’s financial resources and competitive capabilities, offer the best growth and profitability, and present the most potential for competitive advantage.
                     4. correct its internal weaknesses and resource deficiencies.
                     5. help defend against the external threats to its well-being.


229. If you were asked to conduct a SWOT analysis for Grubhub, you would not be able to assess
                     1. how to improve Grubhub’s strategy by building on its strengths and capabilities.
                     2. whether any of Grubhub’s resource strengths can be used to help lessen the impact of external threats.
                     3. how Grubhub’s management could turn a core competence into a distinctive competence.
                     4. which of Grubhub’s resource weaknesses and deficiencies need to be corrected so as to better enable the pursuit of important market opportunities and to better defend against certain external threats.
                     5. which market opportunities are best suited to Grubhub’s strengths and capabilities.


230. Which of the following best describes the market opportunities that tend to be most relevant to a particular company?
                     1. those that provide avenues for taking market share away from close rivals and enhance a company’s image as a leader in product innovation and product quality
                     2. those that offer the company a chance to raise entry barriers
                     3. those that help promote greater diversification of revenues and profits
                     4. those that match up well with the firm’s financial resources and competitive capabilities, offer the best growth and profitability, and present the most potential for competitive advantage
                     5. those that help correct a company’s biggest weaknesses and competitive deficiencies


231. Which of the following is not an example of an external threat to a company’s future profitability?
                     1. lack of a distinctive competence
                     2. potential of a hostile takeover
                     3. adverse changes in foreign exchange rates
                     4. unfavorable demographic shifts
                     5. introduction of restrictive trade policies in countries where the company does business


232. Which of the following is not an example of an external threat to a company’s future profitability?
                     1. likely entry of potent new competitors
                     2. lack of a well-known brand name with which to attract new customers and help retain existing customers
                     3. unfavorable shifts in buyer demographics and tastes
                     4. costly new regulatory requirements
                     5. increase(s) in interest rates


233. The most important payoff of doing a thorough SWOT analysis is
                     1. identifying whether the company’s value chain is cost-effective vis-à-vis the value chains of rivals.
                     2. helping strategy makers benchmark the company’s resource strengths against industry key success factors.
                     3. enabling a company to assess its leverage in negotiations with buyers.
                     4. revealing whether a company’s market share, measures of profitability, and sales compare favorably or unfavorably vis-à-vis key competitors.
                     5. assisting strategy makers in drawing conclusions about the company’s overall situation and crafting a strategy that is well-matched to the company’s resources and capabilities, its market opportunities, and the external threats to its future well-being.


234. The two most important parts of SWOT analysis are
                     1. pinpointing the company’s competitive assets and pinpointing its competitive liabilities.
                     2. identifying the company’s resource strengths and identifying the company’s best market opportunities.
                     3. identifying the external threats to a company’s future profitability and pinpointing how many market opportunities it has.
                     4. drawing conclusions from the SWOT listings about the company’s overall situation and translating these conclusions into strategic actions to better match the company’s strategy to its resource strengths and market opportunities, correct the important weaknesses, and defend against external threats.
                     5. making accurate lists of the company’s strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats, and then using these lists as a basis for ascertaining how well the company’s strategy is working.


235. One of the most telling signs of whether a company’s market position is strong or precarious is
                     1. whether its product is strongly or weakly differentiated from rivals.
                     2. whether its prices and costs are competitive with those of key rivals.
                     3. whether it has a lower stock price than key rivals.
                     4. the opinions of buyers regarding which seller has the best product quality and customer service.
                     5. whether it is in a bigger or smaller strategic group than its closest rivals.


236. Two analytical tools useful in determining whether a company’s prices and costs are competitive are
                     1. SWOT analysis and key success factor analysis.
                     2. SWOT analysis and benchmarking.
                     3. value chain analysis and benchmarking.
                     4. competitive position assessment and competitive strength assessment.
                     5. driving forces analysis and SWOT analysis.


237. A company’s value chain identifies the
                     1. steps it goes through to convert its net income into value for shareholders.
                     2. primary activities that create value for customers and related support activities.
                     3. series of steps it takes to get a product from a raw materials stage to a finished product.
                     4. activities it performs in transforming its competencies into distinctive competencies.
                     5. competencies and competitive capabilities that underpin its efforts to create value for customers and shareholders.


238. The primary activities included in the value chain include
                     1. supply chain management, operations, distribution, sales and marketing, and customer service activities.
                     2. product R&D, technology and systems development.
                     3. human resource management.
                     4. general administration.
                     5. legal and regulatory oversight.


239. A company’s value chain
                     1. consists of the primary activities that it performs in seeking to deliver value to shareholders in the form of higher dividends and a higher stock price.
                     2. depicts the internally performed activities associated with creating and enhancing the company’s competitive assets.
                     3. consists of two broad categories of activities: the primary activities that create customer value and the requisite support activities that facilitate and enhance the performance of the primary activities.
                     4. concerns the basic process the company goes through in performing R&D and developing new products.
                     5. consists of the series of steps a company goes through to develop a new product, get it produced and into the marketplace, and then start collecting revenues and earning a profit.


240. Identifying the primary and secondary activities that comprise a company’s value chain
                     1. indicates whether a company’s resource strengths will ultimately translate into greater value for shareholders.
                     2. reveals whether a company’s resource strengths are well-matched to the industry’s key success factors.
                     3. is the first step in understanding a company’s cost structure (since each activity in the value chain gives rise to costs).
                     4. is called benchmarking.
                     5. is called resource value analysis.


241. Activity-based costing
                     1. is a powerful tool for gathering competitive intelligence on a rival company’s value chain, enabling analysts to classify a rival’s primary and support activities.
                     2. applies benchmarking techniques to develop cost estimates for the value chain activities of each major rival.
                     3. involves the creation of an accounting system that assigns a company’s expenses to whichever activity in a company’s value chain is responsible for creating the cost.
                     4. involves determining which value chain activities represent primary activities and which represent support activities.
                     5. is a tool for identifying the activities that represent variable and fixed costs.


242. Obtaining cost information is a primary difficulty associated with benchmarking. Recommended sources for collecting cost information do not include
                     1. published reports, industry research firms, and trade groups.
                     2. talking to knowledgeable industry leaders.
                     3. field trips to the facilities of competitors or noncompeting firms.
                     4. independent firms and consulting firms to gather best practices and comparative cost data without identifying competing firms.
                     5. classified government documents.


243. Benchmarking involves
                     1. comparing how different companies perform various value chain activities and then making cross-company comparisons of the costs of these activities.
                     2. checking whether a company has achieved more of its financial and strategic objectives over the past five years relative to the other firms it is in direct competition with.
                     3. studying whether a company’s resource strengths are more or less powerful than the resource strengths of rival companies.
                     4. tracking the profit margin along with the value-creating activities.
                     5. comparing the best practices in one industry against the best practices in another industry.


244. Grubhub controls about 13 percent of the U.S. meal delivery market, versus nearly 60 percent for DoorDash and 24 percent for Uber Eats, and Grubhub records lower sales per customer than its main rivals. Grubhub is also at a cost disadvantage with rivals because its internal costs are higher than those of its rivals. Identify two analytical tools that Grubhub can use to assess and restore cost parity.
                     1. SWOT analysis and key success factor analysis
                     2. SWOT analysis and benchmarking
                     3. driving forces analysis and SWOT analysis
                     4. competitive position assessment and competitive strength analysis
                     5. value chain analysis and benchmarking


245. Benchmarking has provided such companies as Xerox, Toyota, and Southwest Airlines with
                     1. hard evidence of cost competitiveness.
                     2. proof of resource availability and scarcity.
                     3. value chain indicators.
                     4. verification of total cost ownership.
                     5. improvements to internal processes.


246. Determining whether a company’s prices and costs are competitive
                     1. requires looking at the costs of a company’s internally performed activities and the costs of its suppliers and forward channel allies (distributors/dealers).
                     2. requires performing pricing surveys on at least a quarterly basis.
                     3. involves developing close relationships with buyers to determine if the market is showing signs of increasing price sensitivity.
                     4. typically involves the use of activity-based cost accounting by the company’s key retail customers.
                     5. is a technique to evaluate whether a capability or resource is valuable, rare, inimitable, or no substitutable.


247. Accurately assessing the competitiveness of a company’s cost structure and value proposition requires that
                     1. managers understand an industry’s entire value chain system.
                     2. managers understand the detail of their own company’s value chain.
                     3. managers are involved in functional strategy development.
                     4. managers understand the firm’s profitability outlook.
                     5. financial measures such as return on equity and return on assets are in excess of the company’s hurdle rates.


248. When looking at the entire industry, the main areas in a company’s overall value chain where important differences between firm’s cost and value do not occur are in
                     1. a company’s own internal activities.
                     2. the supplier’s industry value chain.
                     3. the forward channel portion of the industry chain.
                     4. a company’s own internal activities, the supplier’s industry value chain, and the forward channel portion of the industry chain.
                     5. a company’s external activities, the suppliers’ part of the industry value chain, and the buyer’s ability to integrate backward.


249. Managers can pursue any of several strategic approaches to reduce the costs of internally performed value chain activities and improve a company’s cost competitiveness by
                     1. investing in productivity-enhancing, cost-saving technological improvements.
                     2. outsourcing internally performed activities to those able to perform the activities at a lower cost.
                     3. implementing the use of best practices, particularly for high-cost activities.
                     4. eliminating some cost-producing activities from the value chain, especially low value-added activities.
                     5. acquiring suppliers, rivals, or forward channel distributors.


250. Which of the following is not a good option for trying to remedy high internal costs vis-à-vis rival firms?
                     1. investing in productivity-enhancing, cost-saving technological improvements
                     2. redesigning the product or some of its components to permit more economical manufacture or assembly
                     3. implementing aggressive strategic resource mapping to permit across-the-board cost reduction
                     4. outsourcing high-cost activities to vendors or contractors who can perform them more economically
                     5. relocating high-cost activities (such as manufacturing) to geographic areas (such as China or Latin America or Eastern Europe) where they can be performed more cheaply


251. Which of the following is the best option available to Peloton Interactive, a provider of home fitness equipment and subscriber-based home workouts, for remedying its supplier-related cost disadvantage?
                     1. Negotiate more favorable prices with suppliers.
                     2. Integrate forward into company-owned retail outlets.
                     3. Collaborate closely with forward channel allies to identify mutual cost-saving opportunities.
                     4. Change to a more economical distribution strategy.
                     5. Pressure dealer-distributors to reduce their costs and markups.


252. The options for remedying a supplier-related cost disadvantage include
                     1. trying to negotiate more favorable prices with suppliers and switching to lower-priced substitute inputs.
                     2. forward vertical integration.
                     3. shifting into the production of substitute products.
                     4. shifting from a low-cost leadership strategy to a differentiation or focus strategy.
                     5. cutting selling prices and trying to win a bigger market share.


253. Which of the following is not an option for improving supplier-related value chain activities?
                     1. Integrate backward into the business of high-cost suppliers in an effort to reduce the costs of the items being purchased.
                     2. Negotiate more favorable prices with suppliers.
                     3. Collaborate closely with suppliers to identify mutual cost-saving opportunities.
                     4. Switch to lower-priced substitute inputs.
                     5. Persuade forward channel allies to implement best practices.


254. The options for remedying a cost disadvantage associated with activities performed by forward channel allies include
                     1. switching to lower-priced substitutes.
                     2. pressuring forward channel allies to reduce their costs and markups.
                     3. shifting into the production of substitute products.
                     4. shifting from a differentiation strategy to a best-cost strategy or focus strategy.
                     5. implementing a benchmarking program and adopting best practices.


255. Which of the following is not an option for remedying a forward channel-related cost disadvantage?
                     1. Negotiate more favorable prices with suppliers.
                     2. Integrate forward into company-owned retail outlets.
                     3. Collaborate closely with forward channel allies to identify mutual cost-saving opportunities.
                     4. Change to a more economical distribution strategy.
                     5. Pressure dealer-distributors to reduce their costs and markups.


256. The value of doing competitive strength assessment is to
                     1. determine how competitively powerful the company’s core competencies are.
                     2. learn if the company’s market opportunities are better than those of its rivals.
                     3. learn whether a company has a distinctive competence.
                     4. learn how the company ranks relative to rivals on each of the important factors that determine market success and ascertain whether the company has a net competitive advantage or disadvantage vis-à-vis key rivals.
                     5. determine whether a company’s resource strengths are sufficient to allow it to earn bigger profits than rivals.


257. Doing a competitive strength assessment entails
                     1. determining whether a company has a cost-effective value chain.
                     2. ranking the company against major rivals on each of the important factors that determine market success and ascertaining whether the company has a net competitive advantage or disadvantage versus major rivals.
                     3. identifying a company’s core competencies and distinctive competencies (if any).
                     4. analyzing whether a company is well positioned to gain market share and be the industry’s profit leader.
                     5. developing quantitative measures of a company’s chances for future profitability.


258. A company’s competitive strength scores
                     1. pinpoint its strengths and weaknesses against rivals and point to offensive and defensive strategies capable of producing first-rate results.
                     2. determine whether a company has a cost-effective value chain.
                     3. learn if the company’s market opportunities are better than those of its rival.
                     4. analyze whether a company is well positioned to gain market share and be the industry’s profit leader.
                     5. determine whether a company’s resource strengths are sufficient to allow it to earn bigger profits than rivals.


259. Which one of the following is not something that can be learned from doing a competitive strength assessment?
                     1. factors on which a company is competitively strongest and weakest vis-à-vis key rivals
                     2. whether a company should correct its weaknesses by adopting best practices and/or revamping the makeup of its value chain
                     3. which of the rated companies is competitively strongest and what size competitive advantage it enjoys
                     4. whether a company has a net competitive advantage or a net competitive disadvantage relative to key rivals (with the size of the advantage/disadvantage being indicated by the differences among the companies’ competitive strength scores)
                     5. which rival company is competitively weakest and the areas where it is most vulnerable to competitive attack


260. The overall competitive strength scores for a company like Peloton, a manufacturer of fitness bike equipment and marketer of subscriptions to interactive sports and fitness content
                     1. weight each rival’s overall competitive strength by the size of its market share, which in turn produces a more accurate measure of Peloton’s true competitive strength.
                     2. indicate how all the different strength measures add up—whether Peloton is at a net overall competitive advantage or disadvantage against each rival such as SoulCycle and Flywheel.
                     3. eliminate the bias introduced for those fitness equipment firms that possess large market shares.
                     4. provide a more reliable measure of what competitive moves rivals such as SoulCycle and Flywheel are likely to make next.
                     5. provide a more accurate assessment of the strength of competitive forces in the fitness equipment industry.


261. Identifying the strategic issues a company faces and compiling a “worry list” of problems and roadblocks is an important component of company situation analysis because
                     1. without a precise fix on what problems/issues a company confronts, managers cannot know what the industry’s key success factors are.
                     2. the “worry list” sets the management agenda for taking actions to improve the company’s performance and business outlook.
                     3. without a precise fix on what problems/roadblocks a company confronts, managers are less clear about what value chain activities to benchmark.
                     4. the “worry list” helps company managers clarify their thinking about how best to modify the company’s value chain.
                     5. these issues and obstacles must be cleared before management can focus clearly on what is the best strategy for the company to pursue.


262. Which of the following is not accurate as concerns the task of identifying the strategic issues and problems that merit front-burner managerial attention?
                     1. drawing upon the results and conclusions from analyzing the company’s external environment
                     2. drawing on the results and conclusions from evaluating the company’s own resources and competitive position
                     3. developing a “worry list” of problems and issues for managerial strategy making
                     4. identifying the strategic issues and problems that the company faces is the first thing that company managers need to do before starting to analyze the company’s internal and external environment
                     5. developing a list of what issues and problems that management needs to address (and to resolve) should always precede deciding upon a strategy and what actions to take to improve the company’s position and prospects


263. In order to conduct activity-based costing at Everlane, its managers must
                     1. analyze the costs of each of Everlane’s primary activity.
                     2. determine whether the value chains of Everlane’s rival companies are similar or different.
                     3. benchmark the costs of Everlane’s primary value chain activities against the costs of the support value chain activities.
                     4. determine the costs of each strategic action that Everlane initiates.
                     5. assess the degree to which Everlane’s total costs should be broken down into costs for specific activities depends on how valuable it is to know the costs of specific activities versus broadly defined activities.


264. Costs and price differences among competing companies can have origins in activities performed by
                     1. whether the company has a longer or shorter value chain than its close rivals.
                     2. value chains of the company’s suppliers.
                     3. developing a “worry list” of problems and issues for managerial strategy making.
                     4. the company’s internally performed activities (its own value chain), but also on costs in the value chain of its suppliers and distribution channel allies.
                     5. value chains of a company’s distributors and retail dealers and forward channel allies.


265. Which of the following statements most accurately depicts the task of identifying the strategic issues and problems that merit front-burner managerial attention?
                     1. Draw upon the results and conclusions from analyzing the company’s competitive strength matrix.
                     2. Draw on the results and conclusions from evaluating the company’s own resources and competitive position.
                     3. Develop a “to do list” that provides quick fixes for managerial strategy making.
                     4. Identify the strategic issues and problems that rivals face is the first thing that company managers need to do before starting to analyze the company’s internal and external environment.
                     5. Develop a list of what issues and problems that management needs to address (and to resolve) should always precede deciding upon a strategy and what actions to take to improve the company’s position and prospects.


266. The objective of competitive strategy is to
                     1. provide detail to the company’s business model.
                     2. build competitive advantage in the marketplace by giving buyers superior value relative to the offerings of rival sellers.
                     3. get the company into the best strategic group and then dominate it.
                     4. establish a competitively powerful value chain.
                     5. grow revenues at a faster annual rate than rivals are able to grow their revenues.


267. While there are many routes to competitive advantage, they all involve
                     1. building a brand name image that buyers trust.
                     2. delivering superior value to a broad or narrow market of buyers in ways rivals cannot readily match.
                     3. achieving lower costs than rivals and becoming the industry’s sales and market share leader.
                     4. finding effective and efficient ways to strengthen the company’s competitive assets and to reduce its competitive liabilities.
                     5. getting in the best strategic group and dominating it.


268. A company’s competitive strategy deals with
                     1. management’s game plan for securing a competitive advantage relative to rivals.
                     2. what its strategy will be in such functional areas as R&D, production, sales and marketing, distribution, finance and accounting, and so on.
                     3. its efforts to change its position on the industry’s strategic group map.
                     4. its plans for entering into strategic alliances, utilizing mergers or acquisitions to strengthen its market position, outsourcing some in-house activities to outside specialists, and integrating forward or backward.
                     5. tweaking the value chain drivers to make them more cost competitive with rivals.


269. Planet Fitness’s competitive strategy deals exclusively with the specifics of
                     1. its plans for underpricing rivals and achieving product superiority.
                     2. how it plans to unify its functional and operating strategies into a cohesive effort aimed at successfully taking customers away from rivals.
                     3. management’s game plan for competing successfully.
                     4. actions that management plans to take to develop a better value chain than rivals have.
                     5. planning to strongly differentiate its product offering from the offerings of rival companies in the industry.


270. Although there are many routes to competitive advantage, the two biggest factors that distinguish one competitive strategy from another are
                     1. whether a company’s overall costs are lower than a competitors’ and whether the company can achieve strong product differentiation.
                     2. whether a company can offer the lowest possible prices and whether the company can get the best suppliers in the market.
                     3. whether a company’s target market is broad or narrow and whether the company is pursuing a low cost or differentiation strategy.
                     4. whether a company can achieve lower costs than rivals and whether the company is pursuing the industry’s sales and market share leader’s role.
                     5. whether a company can build a brand name and an image that buyers trust.


271. Jo and Lisa, parents of one of your classmates, are starting a business that will provide packing, cleaning, and hauling services to college students. You have been hired as a consultant to help them select from among five generic types of competitive strategy to pursue as their company enters the marketplace. What are the five generic types of competitive strategy?
                     1. offensive strategies, defensive strategies, low-price strategies, technological leadership strategies, and product innovation strategies
                     2. attacking competitor strengths, broad differentiation, attacking competitor weaknesses, market leadership strategies, and product superiority strategies
                     3. offensive strategies, defensive strategies, early entrant strategies, late-to-market strategies, and fast-follower strategies
                     4. low-price strategies, premium price strategies, middle-of-the-road strategies, best-cost provider, and market share leadership strategies
                     5. low-cost provider, broad differentiation, focused low-cost, focused differentiation, and best-cost provider


272. The generic types of competitive strategies include
                     1. build market share, maintain market share, and slowly surrender market share.
                     2. offensive strategies and defensive strategies.
                     3. low-cost provider, broad differentiation, focused low-cost, focused differentiation, and best-cost provider strategies.
                     4. low-cost/low-price strategies, high-quality/high-price strategies, medium-quality/medium-price strategies, low-cost/high-price strategies.
                     5. price leader strategies, price follower strategies, technology leader strategies, first-mover strategies, offensive strategies, and defensive strategies.


273. Trader Joe’s earns over $2,000 of annual sales per square foot—nearly double that of Whole Foods. By selling mainly private label goods under its own brand, Trader Joe’s keeps its costs low, enabling it to offer lower prices. By being very selective about the particular products that it carries, it has also managed to ensure that its brand is associated with very high quality. What strategy is Trader Joe’s using to gain competitive advantage?
                     1. focused low-cost strategy
                     2. low-cost provider strategy
                     3. best-cost provider strategy
                     4. broad differentiation strategy
                     5. focused differentiation strategy


274. The greatest and most important differences among the competitive strategies of different companies are essentially
                     1. whether a company’s market target is broad or narrow and whether the company is pursuing a competitive advantage linked to low cost or differentiation.
                     2. the kinds of actions companies take to improve their competitive assets and reduce their competitive liabilities.
                     3. the relative emphasis they place on offensive versus defensive strategies.
                     4. the different ways the companies try to cope with the five competitive forces.
                     5. how they go about building a brand name image that buyers trust and whether they are a risk-taker or risk-avoider.


275. A low-cost leader’s basis for competitive advantage is
                     1. lower prices than rival firms.
                     2. using a low-cost/low-price approach to gain the biggest market share.
                     3. high buyer switching costs.
                     4. lower overall costs than competitors.
                     5. higher unit sales than rivals.


276. A low-cost leader can translate its low-cost advantage over rivals into superior profit performance by
                     1. cutting its price to levels significantly below the prices of rivals.
                     2. using its low-cost edge to underprice competitors and attract price-sensitive buyers in large enough numbers to increase total profits or refraining from price-cutting and using the low-cost advantage to earn a higher profit margin on each unit sold.
                     3. going all out to use its cost advantage to capture a dominant share of the market.
                     4. spending heavily on advertising to promote the fact that it charges the lowest prices in the industry.
                     5. outproducing rivals and thus having more units available to sell.


277. The major avenues for achieving a cost advantage over rivals include
                     1. eliminating or curbing nonessential cost-producing activities and performing essential value chain activities more cost-effectively that rivals.
                     2. having a management team that accepts below-market salaries.
                     3. being a first mover in adopting the latest state-of-the-art technologies, especially those relating to low-cost manufacturing.
                     4. outsourcing high-cost activities to offshore vendors.
                     5. paying lower wages to hourly workers than what rivals are paying workers.


278. Low-cost leaders who have the lowest industry costs are likely to
                     1. pursue backward or forward integration to detour suppliers or buyers with considerable bargaining power and leverage.
                     2. move the performance of most all value chain activities to low-wage countries.
                     3. sell direct to users of their product or service and eliminate use of wholesale and retail intermediaries.
                     4. have out-managed rivals in finding ways to perform value chain activities more cost-effectively.
                     5. be considering exiting the current product market and using their competitive low-cost strength to gain a competitive advantage in other product arenas.


279. Achieving a cost advantage over rivals entails
                     1. concentrating on the primary activities portion of the value chain and outsourcing all support activities.
                     2. being a first mover in pursuing backward and forward integration, and controlling as much of the industry value chain as possible.
                     3. performing value chain activities more cost-effectively than rivals and finding ways to eliminate or bypass some cost-producing activities.
                     4. minimizing R&D expenses and paying below-average wages and salaries to conserve on labor costs.
                     5. producing a standard product, redesigning the product infrequently, and having minimal advertising.


280. A gourmet food truck stocks tortillas, beans, meat, fish, sauces, fresh vegetables, rice, and other main ingredients, but does not assemble and cook its tacos, enchiladas, and burritos until each customer places an order. Which cost driver is the food truck efficiently using to cut costs?
                     1. capacity utilization
                     2. economies of scale
                     3. incentive systems and culture
                     4. bargaining power
                     5. supply chain efficiencies


281. The world’s leading chemical company, BASF, can sometimes achieve a sizeable cost advantage over rivals via
                     1. utilizing only high-quality, high-cost inputs.
                     2. decreasing labor productivity and raising compensation costs.
                     3. improving supply chain efficiency.
                     4. avoiding outsourcing and vertical integration.
                     5. increasing marketing and brand-building activities.


282. A competitive strategy of striving to be the low-cost provider is particularly attractive when
                     1. buyers are not price-sensitive.
                     2. the industry is made up of a large number of or equal-sized rivals.
                     3. there are many ways to achieve product differentiation that have value to buyers.
                     4. price competition is especially vigorous, buyers have low switching costs, and the majority of industry sales are made to a few large-volume buyers.
                     5. switching costs are high, price competition is strong, and buyers tend to use the industry’s products in many different ways.


283. A competitive strategy to be the low-cost provider in an industry typically does not work well when
                     1. price competition among rival sellers is especially vigorous.
                     2. commodity-based product prevails and minimal differentiation exists.
                     3. buyers incur low costs in switching their purchases from one seller or brand to another.
                     4. industry newcomers use low introductory prices to attract buyers and build a customer base.
                     5. emergent strategies are required to respond to changes in competitor power.


284. In which of the following circumstances is a strategy to be the industry’s overall low-cost provider not particularly well-matched to the market situation?
                     1. when the offerings of rival firms are essentially identical, standardized, commodity-like products
                     2. when there are few ways to achieve differentiation that have value to buyers
                     3. when price competition is especially vigorous
                     4. when buyers have widely varying needs and special requirements, and when the costs of switching purchases from one seller to another are relatively high
                     5. when industry newcomers use introductory prices to build a customer base


285. The value to a company of pursuing a low-cost provider strategy is contingent upon
                     1. the leader’s ability to combine the cost advantage with a reputation for good quality.
                     2. the leader’s ability to excel in manufacturing innovation so as to continuously reduce its manufacturing costs.
                     3. the leader’s ability to attain the biggest market share in the industry.
                     4. whether or not it is easy or inexpensive for rivals to copy the low-cost leader’s methods or otherwise match its low costs.
                     5. the aggressiveness with which the low-cost leader pursues converting the cost advantage into the absolute lowest possible costs.


286. A strategy to be the industry’s overall low-cost provider tends to be more appealing than a differentiation or focus strategy when
                     1. there are many ways to achieve product differentiation that buyers find appealing.
                     2. buyers use the product in a variety of different ways.
                     3. the offerings of rival firms are essentially identical, standardized, commodity-like products.
                     4. buyers have high switching costs in changing from one seller’s product to another.
                     5. the market is composed of many buyer types, all with varying needs and expectations.


287. Which of the following is not one of the pitfalls of a low-cost provider strategy?
                     1. overly aggressive price-cutting
                     2. using a cost-based advantage to improve the company’s bargaining position with high-volume buyers
                     3. using approaches to reducing costs that can be easily copied by rivals
                     4. cutting prices more than the size of a company’s cost advantage
                     5. becoming so fixated on cost reductions that products become too features-poor


288. Effective use of cost drivers to support Ikea’s low-cost generic strategy involves
                     1. adopting intangible product features that enhance buyer satisfaction in noneconomic ways.
                     2. working with downstream channel allies to enhance customer value.
                     3. coordinating with suppliers to better meet customer needs.
                     4. using lower-cost inputs wherever doing so will not entail too great a sacrifice in quality.
                     5. signaling the value proposition of the company’s offering to buyers.


289. Vanguard’s generic strategy to become the financial services industry’s overall low-cost provider is particularly well-matched to a customer-market characterized by
                     1. offerings of Vanguard’s rivals that are essentially identical and readily available from many eager sellers.
                     2. multiple possibilities to achieve differentiation that have value to buyers.
                     3. buyers are willing to pay a price premium for Vanguard’s portfolio management services.
                     4. widely varying financial services customers’ needs and special requirements, and the prices of substitute services are relatively high.
                     5. many small investors seeking premium financial services account for the preponderance of industry sales.


290. Vanguard, one of the world’s largest investment management companies, has attained cost leadership via
                     1. pursuing a differentiation strategy that can be easily copied.
                     2. undertaking an operations functionality redesign.
                     3. establishing sales productivity and operating practices guidelines.
                     4. ferreting out cost-saving opportunities in every part of the value chain.
                     5. re-creating rivals’ assembly plant structuration savings.


291. Successful differentiation allows a firm to
                     1. command the largest market share in the industry.
                     2. set the industry ceiling on price.
                     3. avoid being overly concerned about whether entry barriers into the industry are high or low.
                     4. command a premium price for its product and/or increase unit sales and/or gain buyer loyalty to its brand.
                     5. take sales and market share away from rivals by undercutting them on price.


292. For Zoom Technologies, an online video conferencing platform, achieving a differentiation-based competitive advantage successfully involves
                     1. separating marketing from brand-building activities.
                     2. superior customer service via ease of access and high-quality audio and video output.
                     3. entering late into a market and enjoying the benefits of experience curve effects.
                     4. pursuing cost reductions throughout the entire value chain.
                     5. striving to match rivals’ product features, design, and performance at a lower price.


293. Prada, Gucci, and Burberry are among the high fashion design companies that are attempting to be successful with a broad differentiation strategy via
                     1. studying buyer needs and behavior carefully to learn what buyers consider important, what they think has value, and what they are willing to pay for.
                     2. incorporating more differentiating features into their fashion items than rivals.
                     3. investing in a dazzling array of features that exceed the needs of most buyers.
                     4. concentrating on social media marketing and advertising (where almost all differentiating features are created).
                     5. concentrating on offering advanced features, regardless of their value to customers, to create one-of-a-kind fashion products.


294. Founded in New York City in 2017, Gem X is an exclusive social club for jewelry enthusiasts and connoisseurs. Gem X has since expanded to become a global community of friends, mentors and collaborators. Its website states, “With a wide network ranging from designers, gemologists, curators, art historians and collectors, our members share in expert jewelry knowledge and behind-the-scenes experiences.” Gem X charges a higher price for its jewelry, and has a rigorous quality control process to insure the social responsibility of its jewelry suppliers. What strategy is Gem X using to deliver superior value to customers?
                     1. incorporating intangible features
                     2. incorporating tangible features
                     3. lowering the buyer’s overall cost
                     4. leveraging its power over suppliers
                     5. signaling value by targeting sophisticated buyers


295. A broad differentiation strategy would work best for which of these companies?
                     1. Vanguard, because the products of rival fund management companies are essentially identical and are readily available from numerous sellers
                     2. Prada, because it can command a high-price premium for its high fashion designs
                     3. Clinícas del Azúcar, a health care provider, because it is able to use technology to lower its costs significantly by limiting its customer base to a well-defined buyer segment
                     4. Canada Goose, because using small-scale production or custom-made products, it focuses on product features and attributes that appeal specifically to niche members
                     5. Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NA, because it was able to capture scale economies with its estimated $41 million spent on 4 minutes of ads during Super Bowl 2021, spreading its marketing costs over the millions of cases of Budweiser, Stella Artois, Michelob ULTRA, and Bud Light sold that year


296. Domino’s Pizza has a well-known slogan: “We’ll deliver in 30 minutes or less, or it’s free!” By using this slogan, what has the pizza maker achieved?
                     1. given a sense of exclusivity to its customers
                     2. increased its ability to charge a price premium for its product (because buyers see its differentiating features as worth something extra)
                     3. coordinated with suppliers to better address customer needs
                     4. created a new delivery system
                     5. built a unique customer value proposition


297. Companies can pursue differentiation from many angles, except
                     1. providing a unique competitive product taste.
                     2. executing superior customer service.
                     3. ensuring engineering design and performance benefits.
                     4. providing products that ensue luxury and prestige.
                     5. investing in managerial productivity and enjoying experience curve effects.


298. Easy-to-copy differentiating features
                     1. do not offer the promise of sustainable competitive advantage.
                     2. are less expensive to integrate into a product or service offering.
                     3. tend to create as much value for consumers as difficult-to-copy differentiating features.
                     4. should be patented before other companies follow suit.
                     5. lead to vigorous price competition.


299. The most appealing approaches to differentiation are those that
                     1. are the most costly to incorporate.
                     2. match the differentiating features offered by rivals in the industry.
                     3. can be made even more attractive to buyers via clever advertising.
                     4. appeal to the most affluent consumers.
                     5. are hard or expensive for rivals to duplicate and have considerable buyer appeal.


300. Hilton Hotels has diversified its lodging brands by adding Curio Collection, Tapestry Collection, and Canopy by Hilton, properties that offer stylish, distinctive decors and personalized services that appeal to young professionals seeking distinctive lodging alternatives. Managers can enhance the differentiation of these new brands based on all of these value drivers except
                     1. striving to create superior product features, design, and performance.
                     2. striving for innovation and technological advances.
                     3. pursuing continuous quality improvement.
                     4. increasing the intensity of marketing, brand-building, and sales activities.
                     5. seeking out low-quality inputs.


301. A differentiation strategy works best when
                     1. buyers’ needs are homogeneous.
                     2. many rival firms are also pursuing a differentiation approach.
                     3. firms have ample excess cash to invest in R&D activities.
                     4. there are few other ways to make a product unique to buyers.
                     5. technological change is fast-paced and competition revolves around rapidly evolving product features.


302. A differentiation-based competitive advantage
                     1. nearly always is attached to the quality and service aspects of a company’s product offering.
                     2. most often is the result of highly effective marketing and advertising campaigns designed to build awareness and recognition of the product or service offering.
                     3. requires developing at least one distinctive competence that buyers consider valuable.
                     4. hinges on a company’s success in developing top-of-the-line product features that will command the biggest price premium in the industry.
                     5. often hinges on incorporating features that: (1) raise the performance of the product, (2) lower the buyer’s overall costs of using the company’s product, (3) enhance buyer satisfaction in intangible or noneconomic ways, or (4) deliver value to customers by exploiting competitive capabilities that rivals can’t match.


303. Opportunities to differentiate a company’s product offering
                     1. are always dependent on the capabilities of the company’s R&D staff.
                     2. are more likely to be captured by highly skilled marketers.
                     3. can exist in supply chain activities, R&D, manufacturing activities, distribution and shipping, or marketing, sales, and customer service.
                     4. usually are tied to product quality, durability, reliability, and proliferation.
                     5. are most frequently attached to a product’s brand image, performance, and reliability.


304. A route to take in developing a differentiation advantage includes
                     1. signaling value by targeting sophisticated buyers.
                     2. incorporating intangible features that enhance buyer satisfaction in economic ways.
                     3. emphasizing high quality and performance of products through a standard and simple, no-fuss packaging.
                     4. incorporating product attributes and user features that raise the buyer’s overall costs, but keep the price low.
                     5. incorporating tangible features that add functionality, increase customer satisfaction with the product specifications, functions, and styling.


305. Broad differentiation strategies are well suited for market conditions where
                     1. there are many ways to differentiate the product or service and many buyers perceive these differences as having value.
                     2. most buyers have the same needs and use the product in the same ways.
                     3. buyers are susceptible to clever advertising.
                     4. barriers to entry are high and suppliers have a low degree of bargaining power.
                     5. price competition is especially vigorous.


306. A successful differentiation strategy such as Tesla’s must offer value in ways unmatched by rivals, however, a big issue in crafting a differentiation strategy for Tesla is deciding what is valuable to customers. Typically, value can be delivered to customers in these three basic ways:
                     1. using the company’s bargaining power vis-à-vis suppliers to gain concessions, remaining alert to the cost advantages of outsourcing and vertical integration, and/or pursuing ways to boost labor productivity and lower overall compensation costs.
                     2. striving to capture all available economies of scale, taking complete advantage of experience and learning-curve effects, and/or trying to operate facilities at full capacity.
                     3. employing advanced production technology and process design to improve overall efficiency, substituting lower-cost inputs whenever there is little or no sacrifice in product quality or product performance, using communication systems and information technology to achieve operating efficiencies.
                     4. incorporating tangible features that improve product performance, including product attributes and user features that lower the buyer’s costs, and/or adopting intangible features that enhance buyer satisfaction in noneconomic ways.
                     5. selling directly to consumers and cutting out the activities and costs of distributors and dealers, streamlining operations by eliminating low-value-added or unnecessary work steps and activities, and/or improving supply chain efficiency to reduce materials handling and shipping costs.


307. A broad differentiation strategy works best in situations characterized by
                     1. slow-paced technological change and infrequent new or improved product introductions.
                     2. similar buyer needs and uses of the product.
                     3. low switching costs to rival brands incurred by buyers.
                     4. low bargaining power and frequent purchases by buyers.
                     5. fast-paced technological change and rapidly evolving product features that drive competition.


308. A broad differentiation strategy generally produces the best results in situations where
                     1. buyer brand loyalty is low.
                     2. few rivals are following a similar differentiation approach.
                     3. new and improved products are introduced only infrequently.
                     4. most rivals are seeking to differentiate their products on most of the same features and attributes.
                     5. price competition is vigorous.


309. In which one of the following market circumstances is a broad differentiation strategy generally not well suited?
                     1. when buyer needs and preferences are diverse
                     2. when few rivals are pursuing a similar differentiation approach
                     3. when buyers are homogeneous in their needs and preferences, and are generally satisfied with standardized product
                     4. when there are many ways to differentiate the product or service and many buyers perceive these differences as having value
                     5. when technological change is fast-paced and competition revolves around rapidly evolving product features


310. A low-cost provider strategy can defeat a differentiation strategy
                     1. when a company can offset thinner profit margins per unit by selling sufficient additional units to increase total profits.
                     2. when there are few ways to differentiate a product or a service and many buyers perceive these differences valuable.
                     3. when customers are basically satisfied and don’t think extra attributes are worth a higher price feature.
                     4. when there are many ways to differentiate the product or service and many buyers perceive these differences as having value.
                     5. when technological change is fast-paced and competition revolves around rapidly evolving product features.


311. A pitfall to avoid in pursuing a differentiation strategy is
                     1. charging a premium price for the differentiating features.
                     2. spending on activities to differentiate the company’s product to enhance profitability.
                     3. meeting and exceeding the meaningful gaps in quality, performance, service, and other attractive differentiating attributes offered by rivals.
                     4. choosing a product offering that supports buyers’ indifference to rival brands’ offerings.
                     5. trying to differentiate on the basis of attributes or features that are easily copied.


312. Focusing carries several risks, chief among which is the
                     1. chance that niche customers will bargain more aggressively for good deals than customers in the overall marketplace.
                     2. chance that competitors will find effective ways to match the focused firm’s capabilities in serving the target market.
                     3. potential for the segment to be highly vulnerable to economic cycles.
                     4. potential for the segment to become too specialized for other multisegmented rivals to enter.
                     5. inability of a company to compete industry-wide.


313. What sets focused (or market niche) strategies apart from low-cost leadership and broad differentiation strategies is
                     1. the extra attention paid to top-notch product performance and product quality.
                     2. their concentrated attention on a narrow piece of the overall market.
                     3. greater opportunity for competitive advantage.
                     4. their suitability for market situations where most industry rivals have weakly differentiated products.
                     5. their objective of delivering more value for the money.


314. The advantages of focusing a company’s entire competitive effort on a single market niche allows for
                     1. going after a national customer base with a “something for everyone” lineup of models.
                     2. scaling operations to serve the customer-market segment.
                     3. utilizing the full depth of the company’s resources across a broad base of customers.
                     4. executing competencies and capabilities better than competitors.
                     5. developing offensive strategies that address company weaknesses and environmental threats.


315. A focused low-cost strategy seeks to achieve competitive advantage by
                     1. outmatching competitors in offering niche members an absolute rock-bottom price.
                     2. delivering more value for the money than other competitors.
                     3. performing the primary value chain activities at a lower cost per unit than can the industry’s low-cost leaders.
                     4. dominating more market niches in the industry via a lower cost and a lower price than any other rival.
                     5. serving buyers in the target market niche at a lower cost and lower price than rivals.


316. The chief difference between a low-cost leader strategy and a focused low-cost strategy is
                     1. whether the product is strongly differentiated or weakly differentiated from rivals.
                     2. the degree of bargaining power that buyers have.
                     3. the size of the buyer group that a company is trying to appeal to.
                     4. the production methods being used to achieve a low-cost competitive advantage.
                     5. the number of upscale attributes incorporated into the product offering.


317. A focused differentiation strategy aims at securing competitive advantage
                     1. by providing niche members with a top-of-the-line product at a premium price.
                     2. by catering to buyers looking for an upscale product at an attractively low price.
                     3. with a product or service offering carefully designed to appeal to the unique preferences and needs of a narrow, well-defined group of buyers.
                     4. by developing product attributes that no other company in the industry has.
                     5. by convincing affluent buyers that the company has a true world-class product.


318. The risks of a focused strategy for a company like Canada Goose include the
                     1. chance that niche customers will bargain more aggressively for good deals than customers in the overall marketplace.
                     2. potential for the preferences and needs of niche members to shift over time toward product attributes desired by buyers in the mainstream portion of the market.
                     3. potential for the segment to be highly vulnerable to economic cycles.
                     4. potential for segment growth to race beyond the production or service capabilities of incumbent firms.
                     5. potential for the segment to become too specialized for other multisegmented rivals to enter.


319. A focused differentiation strategy can lead to an attractive competitive advantage when
                     1. industry leaders have chosen not to compete in the niche.
                     2. buyers are not strongly loyal to a brand and a large number of other rivals are attempting to specialize in the same target segment.
                     3. the industry has many different segments and market niches, thereby allowing a focuser to pick an attractive niche suited to its resource strengths and capabilities.
                     4. the target market niche is big enough to be profitable and offers good growth potential.
                     5. it is costly or difficult for multi-segment competitors to meet the specialized needs of the target market niche and at the same time satisfy the expectations of their mainstream customers.


320. You have been asked by your employer to explain the differences between cost drivers and uniqueness drivers. You would correctly say that
                     1. cost drivers are factors that have a strong effect on the cost of a company’s value chain activities and ability to become a low-cost provider, whereas uniqueness drivers are value chain activities or factors that can have a strong impact on customer value and create differentiation.
                     2. cost drivers are value chain activities or factors that can have a strong impact on customer value and create differentiation, whereas uniqueness drivers are factors that have a strong effect on the cost of a company’s value chain activities and ability to become a low-cost provider.
                     3. cost drivers include high-quality inputs, innovation and technological advances, continuous quality improvement, and improving skills of personnel, marketing and brand-building, while uniqueness drivers include taking full advantage of experience and learning-curve effects, employing advanced production technology and process design to improve overall efficiency, and using communication systems and information technology to achieve operating efficiencies.
                     4. cost drivers involve superior product features and enhanced customer service, while uniqueness drivers involve substituting lower-cost inputs whenever there’s little or no sacrifice in product quality or product performance and trying to operate facilities at full capacity.
                     5. cost drivers are superior to uniqueness drivers since the former uses the company’s bargaining power vis-à-vis suppliers to gain concessions and pursues ways to boost labor productivity and lower overall compensation costs, while the latter focus primarily on capturing all available economies of scale and taking full advantage of experience and learning-curve effects.


321. For all types of generic strategies, a company’s success in sustaining its competitive edge depends on
                     1. its market and competitive environment, a defensible niche, and homogeneous strategic group.
                     2. establishing a central theme for how the company will endeavor to outcompete its rivals and engage complementors with cooperative strategies.
                     3. having resources and capabilities that rivals have trouble duplicating and for which there are no good substitutes.
                     4. defining its differences in terms of product line, production emphasis, location, joint ventures, and strategic alliances.
                     5. defining its differences in terms of marketing emphasis, strategic group intracompetition, and the means of maintaining strategy.


322. A firm pursuing a best-cost provider strategy
                     1. seeks to offer more value-adding features than the industry’s low-cost providers and lower prices than those pursuing differentiation.
                     2. achieves competitive advantage because its operating activities are “best-in-class” or “best-in-world.”
                     3. tries to have the best cost (as compared to rivals) for each activity in the industry’s value chain.
                     4. opts for a “middle-of-the-road” strategic approach that attempts to satisfy the product or service needs of consumers with average household incomes.
                     5. follows a hybrid strategy based upon superior resources and a narrow market niche.


323. The aim of the best-cost provider strategy is to create a competitive advantage by
                     1. incorporating attractive or upscale product attributes at a lower cost than rivals.
                     2. offering buyers the industry’s best-performing product at the best cost and best (lowest) price in the industry.
                     3. attracting buyers on the basis of having the industry’s overall best-performing product at a price that is slightly below the industry-average price.
                     4. outcompeting rivals using low-cost provider strategies.
                     5. translating its best-cost status into achieving the highest profit margins of any firm in the industry.


324. For a best-cost provider strategy to be successful, a company must have
                     1. excellent marketing and sales skills in convincing buyers to pay a premium price for the attributes/features incorporated in its product.
                     2. the capability to incorporate upscale attributes at lower costs than rivals whose products have similar upscale attributes.
                     3. access to greater learning and experience curve effects and scale economies than rivals.
                     4. one of the best-known and most respected brand names in the industry.
                     5. a short, low-cost value chain.


325. The target market of a best-cost provider is
                     1. value-conscious buyers.
                     2. brand-conscious buyers.
                     3. price-sensitive buyers.
                     4. middle-income buyers.
                     5. young adults (in the 18-to-35 age group).


326. You have been asked to advise Lexus on its generic strategy. Success in sustaining Lexus’s best-cost strategy requires that the company
                     1. possesses the resources and capabilities to keep costs below those of its competitors.
                     2. possesses the resources and capabilities to leverage value drivers effectively and incorporate attributes into its product offering that a broad range of buyers will find appealing.
                     3. possesses the capability to do an outstanding job of satisfying the needs and expectations of niche buyers.
                     4. possesses the innovative capability to bypass certain value chain activities being performed by rivals.
                     5. possess the resources and capabilities to incorporate upscale product or service attributes at a lower cost than rivals.


327. A company’s biggest vulnerability in employing a best-cost provider strategy is
                     1. relying too heavily on outsourcing.
                     2. getting squeezed between firms employing low-cost provider strategies and those using high-end differentiation strategies.
                     3. getting trapped in a price war with low-cost leaders.
                     4. being timid in cutting its prices far enough below high-end differentiators to win away many of their customers.
                     5. not having a sustainable distinctive competence in cost reduction.


328. Best-cost provider strategies are appealing in those market situations where
                     1. buyers are more quality-conscious than price-conscious.
                     2. diverse buyer preferences make product differentiation the norm and where a large number of value-conscious buyers can be induced to purchase midrange products.
                     3. there are numerous buyer segments, buyer needs are diverse across these segments, only a few of the segments are growing rapidly, and sellers’ products are strongly differentiated.
                     4. buyers are more performance-conscious than value-conscious.
                     5. a company is positioned between rivals who have ultra-low prices and rivals who have top-notch products in terms of both quality and performance.


329. Success with a best-cost provider strategy designed to outcompete high-end differentiators requires
                     1. achieving significantly lower costs in providing the upscale features.
                     2. motivating buyers to purchase upscale features that match rivals.
                     3. achieving the lowest costs in the industry.
                     4. matching the company’s resources and capabilities to a low-cost provider status.
                     5. providing significantly better product attributes in order to justify a price above what low-cost leaders are charging.


330. Bonobos’s Guideshop store concept allows men to have a personalized shopping experience, where they can try on clothing in any size or color, and then have it delivered the next day to their home or office. This fashion retail concept is a good example of
                     1. a defensive strategy to capture occupied territory by maneuvering around rivals.
                     2. a defensive strategy to minimize the competitive advantages of rivals.
                     3. an offensive strategy to offer an equally good or better product at a lower price.
                     4. an offensive strategy to leapfrog competitors by being the first adopter of next-generation technologies or being first to market with next-generation products.
                     5. an offensive strategy to seek uncharted waters and compete in blue oceans.


331. The concept of blue-ocean strategies refers to
                     1. providing a company with a great opportunity in the long run.
                     2. seeing the business universe as consisting of red, white, and blue contestable market segments.
                     3. market spaces that are intense with competition and offer limited opportunity for profitable and rapid growth.
                     4. a pre-emptive strike to secure an advantageous position in a mature market segment.
                     5. inventing a new market segment that renders existing competitors irrelevant.


332. Companies like Samsung, Amazon, Autonation, and Google employ all but one of the following offensive actions to complement and supplement the choice of one of the five generic competitive strategies. Which is not an example of an offensive move?
                     1. focusing on building competitive advantages
                     2. employing the element of surprise as opposed to doing what rivals expect and are prepared for
                     3. pursuing a market share leadership strategy
                     4. displaying a strong bias for swift, decisive, and overwhelming actions to overpower
                     5. creating and deploying company resources to cause rivals to defend themselves


333. Which one of the following is an example of an offensive strategy?
                     1. blocking the avenues open to challengers
                     2. signaling challengers that retaliation is likely
                     3. pursuing continuous product innovation to draw sales and market share away from less innovative rivals
                     4. introducing new features or models to fill vacant niches in its overall product offering and better match the product offerings of key rivals
                     5. maintaining a war chest of cash and marketable securities


334. A hit-and-run or guerrilla warfare type offensive strategy
                     1. involves random offensive attacks used by a market leader to steal customers away from unsuspecting smaller rivals.
                     2. involves undertaking surprise moves to secure an advantageous position in a fast-growing and profitable market segment; usually the guerrilla signals rivals that it will use deep price cuts to defend its newly won position.
                     3. works best if the guerrilla is the industry’s low-cost leader.
                     4. involves pitting a small company’s own competitive strengths head-on against the strengths of much larger rivals.
                     5. involves unexpected attacks (usually by a small to medium-sized competitor) to grab sales and market share from complacent or distracted rivals.


335. Launching a preemptive strike type of offensive strategy entails
                     1. cutting prices below a weak rival’s costs.
                     2. moving first to secure an advantageous competitive asset that rivals can’t readily match or duplicate.
                     3. using hit-and-run tactics to grab sales and market share away from complacent or distracted rivals.
                     4. attacking the competitive weaknesses of rivals.
                     5. leapfrogging into next-generation products and technologies, thus forcing rivals to play catch-up.


336. Bumble, a digital dating site where women make the first move, specifically uses which strategic weapon in its offensive arsenal?
                     1. pursuing disruptive product innovations to create new markets
                     2. adopting and improving on the good ideas of other companies or rival firms
                     3. using hit-and-run guerrilla warfare tactics to grab market share from distracted or complacent rivals
                     4. launching a preemptive strike to capture an industry’s limited resources or capture a rare opportunity
                     5. offering an equally good or better product at a lower price than rivals


337. A good example of blue-ocean type of offensive strategy is
                     1. a company like Eero that leapfrogged rivals in innovation in the home WiFi market.
                     2. a company like EasyJet that developed a cost advantage to undercut its rivals in passenger airlines.
                     3. a company like Home Depot that adopted and improved on the good ideas of other companies.
                     4. a company like Etsy that connected thoughtful consumers with artisans selling unique hand-crafted items.
                     5. a company like Google that plays hardball, aggressively pursuing competitive advantage and trying to reap the benefits a competitive edge offers—a leading market share, excellent profit margins, and rapid growth.


338. A blue-ocean type of offensive strategy
                     1. refers to initiatives by a market leader to steal customers away from unsuspecting smaller rivals.
                     2. involves a preemptive strike to secure an advantageous position in a fast-growing market segment.
                     3. entails attacking rivals head-on with deep price discounts and continuous product innovation.
                     4. involves abandoning efforts to beat out competitors in existing markets and, instead, inventing a new industry or new market segment that renders existing competitors largely irrelevant and allows a company to create and capture altogether new demand.
                     5. involves the use of surprise hit-and-run guerrilla tactics to harass money-losing rivals and drive them into bankruptcy.


339. A blue-ocean strategy
                     1. is an offensive attack used by a market leader to steal customers away from unsuspecting smaller rivals.
                     2. involves a preemptive strike to secure an advantageous position in a fast-growing market segment.
                     3. works best when a company is the industry’s low-cost leader.
                     4. offers growth in revenues and profits by discovering or inventing a new industry or distinct market segment that renders rivals largely irrelevant and allows a company to create and capture altogether new demand.
                     5. involves the use of highly creative, never-used-before strategic moves to attack the competitive weaknesses of rivals.


340. Which of the following is not an example of a company that uses blue-ocean market strategy?
                     1. FedEx in overnight package delivery
                     2. Walmart’s logistics and distribution in the retail industry
                     3. Cirque de Soleil in the live entertainment industry
                     4. Gilt Groupe in the luxury flash sale industry
                     5. Starbucks in the coffee shop industry


341. Etsy promotes its ability to connect thoughtful consumers with artisans selling unique hand-crafted items online. Etsy’s strategy is a good example of a(n)
                     1. offensive strategy to seek uncharted waters and compete in blue oceans.
                     2. offensive strategy to offer an equally good or better product at a lower price.
                     3. offensive strategy to leapfrog competitors by being the first adopter of next-generation technologies or being first to market with next-generation products.
                     4. defensive strategy to capture occupied territory by maneuvering around rivals.
                     5. defensive strategy to minimize the competitive advantages of rivals.


342. A company that is leapfrogging competitors by being the first to market with next-generation technology or products is
                     1. Eero.
                     2. Netflix.
                     3. Twitter.
                     4. Venmo.
                     5. Waymo.


343. While other dating apps were already in existence, Tinder found success in pioneering the swiping phenomenon, thereby easing the process of finding love online and making the use of dating apps commonplace. This is an example of
                     1. a late-mover advantage.
                     2. a first-mover advantage.
                     3. a fast-follower advantage.
                     4. competitive imitation.
                     5. a blue-ocean strategy.


344. The purposes of defensive strategies include
                     1. discouraging deep price discounting on the part of ambitious rivals seeking to capture additional sales and market share.
                     2. lowering the risk of being attacked by rivals, weakening the impact of any attack that occurs, and influencing challengers to aim their offensive efforts at other rivals.
                     3. insulating a company from the impact of competitive pressures and industry driving forces.
                     4. weakening competitors in ways that make them largely irrelevant.
                     5. widening a company’s competitive advantage over rivals.


345. What was the primary advantage of Zoom’s strategy to enter the online video conferencing marketplace as an adept follower of rivals such as Skype, WebEx, and GoToMeeting?
                     1. Rapid market evolution (due to fast-paced changes in either technology or buyer needs) gave second movers the opening to leapfrog a first mover’s products with more attractive and affordable next-version products.
                     2. Opportunities existed for a blue-ocean strategy to invent a new industry or distinctive market segment that created altogether new demand.
                     3. The pioneers underestimated the market demand for online video conferencing.
                     4. The costs of pioneering in the online video conferencing market were much lower than being a follower and major learning/experience benefits were accrued to the pioneer.
                     5. Technological change in this market was slow, and fast-following rivals encountered great difficulties in leapfrogging the pioneers with next-generation products of their own.


346. Which of the following is not an example of a defensive move to protect a company’s market position and restrict a challenger’s options for initiating competitive attack?
                     1. granting volume discounts or better financing terms to dealers/distributors and providing discount coupons to buyers to help discourage them from experimenting with other suppliers or brands
                     2. signaling challengers that retaliation is likely in the event they launch an attack
                     3. publicly committing the company to a policy of matching a competitors’ terms or prices
                     4. maintaining a war chest of cash and marketable securities
                     5. challenging struggling runner-up firms that are on the verge of going under


347. Which of the following ways are employed by defending companies to fend off a competitive attack?
                     1. excluding volume discounts or avoiding better financing terms in order to maintain current profitability levels
                     2. avoiding a competitor’s clients because their loyalty will not allow them to switch
                     3. adhering to current product features and models to ensure that resources are not diverted toward unproductive efforts
                     4. trimming the length of warranties to save money
                     5. gaining product line exclusivity to force competitors to use other distributors


348. Which of the following signals would not warn challengers that strong retaliation is likely?
                     1. publicly committing to a company policy of matching competitors’ terms or pricing
                     2. making a strong counterresponse to the moves of weak competitors
                     3. publicly announcing management’s commitment to maintain market share
                     4. maintaining a war chest of cash and marketable securities
                     5. announcing strong quarterly earnings potential to financial analysts.


349. Being first to initiate a strategic move can have a high payoff in all but which one of the following circumstances?
                     1. when pioneering helps build a firm’s image and reputation with buyers
                     2. when first-time customers remain strongly loyal to pioneering firms in making repeat purchases
                     3. when early commitments to new technologies, new-style components, new or emerging distribution channels, and so on can produce an absolute cost advantage over rivals
                     4. when moving first can constitute a preemptive strike, making imitation extra hard or unlikely
                     5. when pioneering leadership is costlier than followership


350. First-mover advantages are unlikely to be present in which one of the following instances?
                     1. when pioneering helps build a firm’s image and reputation with buyers
                     2. when first-time customers remain strongly loyal to pioneering firms in making repeat purchases
                     3. when early commitments to new technologies, new-style components, new or emerging distribution channels, and so on can produce an absolute cost advantage over rivals
                     4. when moving first can constitute a preemptive strike, making imitation extra hard or unlikely
                     5. when rapid market evolution (due to fast-paced changes in technology or buyer preferences) presents opportunities to leapfrog a first-mover’s products with more attractive next-version products


351. First-mover disadvantages (or late-mover advantages) rarely arise when
                     1. rapid market evolution gives fast followers an opening to leapfrog the pioneer with next-generation products of their own.
                     2. the market response is strong and the pioneer gains a monopoly position that enables it to recover its investment.
                     3. the marketplace remains skeptical about the benefits of a new technology or product being pioneered by a first-mover.
                     4. the costs of pioneering are much higher than being a follower and only negligible learning/experience-curve benefits accrue to the pioneer.
                     5. the pioneer’s products are somewhat primitive and do not live up to buyer expectations, allowing clever followers to win disenchanted buyers with better-performing products.


352. Any company that seeks competitive advantage by being a first mover thus needs to ask some hard questions, such as
                     1. is the inflection point of the market-penetration curve positive or negative?
                     2. do opportunities for a blue-ocean strategy exist to invent a new industry or distinctive market segment to create new demand?
                     3. is market growth contingent upon complementary products and services that are already in general use?
                     4. will buyers encounter low switching costs?
                     5. are influential competitors in a position to delay or derail the efforts of a first mover?


353. The race among rivals for industry leadership is more likely to be a marathon rather than a sprint when
                     1. the market depends on the development of complementary products or services that are currently not available, buyers have high switching costs, and influential rivals are in position to derail the efforts of a first-mover.
                     2. fast followers find it easy to leapfrog the pioneer with even better next-generation products of their own.
                     3. entry barriers are high, substitute products or services are readily available, and buyers are prone to negotiate aggressively for better terms and lower prices.
                     4. there are nearly always big advantages to being a slow mover rather than an early mover, especially in regard to avoiding the “mistakes” of first or early movers.
                     5. new industry or market segments are yet to be developed and create altogether new consumer demand.


354. Market conditions and factors that tend not to favor first movers include
                     1. growth in demand that depends on the development of complementary products or services that are not currently available and new industry infrastructure that is needed before buyer demand can surge.
                     2. quick market penetration and strong loyalty among first-time customers.
                     3. buyer behavior that is readily attracted to new technology or product features.
                     4. conditions that make imitation difficult and absolute cost advantages that accrue to those who make early commitments to new technologies, components, or distribution channels.
                     5. when technology is not rapidly evolving and buyers’ expectations are not likely to be subject to change.


355. What does the scope of the firm refer to?
                     1. the firm’s capability to employ vertical integration strategies
                     2. the combining of two or more companies into a single corporate entity (with the newly created company often taking on a new name)
                     3. the range of activities the firm performs internally and the breadth of its product offerings, the extent of its geographic market, and its mix of businesses
                     4. the ability of the firm to gain competitive advantage based on where it locates its various value chain activities
                     5. the ability of the firm to prevent foreign competition from affecting the market


356. Expedia’s merger and acquisition of Home Away, Inc. did not have the following intended outcome?
                     1. expanding Expedia’s geographic coverage
                     2. providing Expedia with quick access to new technologies or complementary resources and capabilities
                     3. enabling Expedia to lead the convergence of the travel and vacation rental industries, whose boundaries are being blurred by changing technologies and new market opportunities
                     4. extending Expedia’s business into new product categories
                     5. suppressing rival company Orbitz’s breakthroughs in management or technology


357. The hallmarks of Tesla’s vertical integration strategy do not include
                     1. investments in a “gigafactory” that manufactures the batteries that are essential for a long-lasting Tesla electric vehicle.
                     2. research and development and rapid deployments of Tesla’s control integration systems (creating control factors across its entire value chain).
                     3. in-house manufacturing of key components and new parts that require frequent updates resulting in a shorter learning curve and more rapid new Tesla vehicle development.
                     4. fostering closer relationships between Tesla engineering and manufacturing departments to provide greater control over product design.
                     5. a network of dealerships that allows Tesla to sell directly to consumers and handle maintenance needs without relying on third parties that sometimes have competing priorities.


358. The difference between a merger and an acquisition is
                     1. a merger involves one company purchasing the assets of another company with cash, whereas an acquisition involves one company becoming the owner of another company by buying all of the shares of its common stock.
                     2. a merger is the combining of two or more companies into a single corporate entity (with the newly created company often taking on a new name), whereas an acquisition is a combination in which one company, the acquirer, purchases and absorbs the operations of another, the acquired.
                     3. nonexistent; in both instances, two companies become one.
                     4. the brands of both companies are retained in a merger, whereas with an acquisition, there is only one surviving brand name.
                     5. a merger involves two or more companies deciding to adopt the same strategy, whereas an acquisition involves one company becoming the owner of another company but with each company still pursuing its own separate strategy.


359. A good example of a company’s management betting that two or more distinct industries are converging into one and deciding to establish a strong position in the consolidating markets by bringing together the resources and products of several different companies is the merger of
                     1. Cisco and ThousandEyes, a cloud-based security company.
                     2. Coca-Cola and BodyArmor, a sports drink company.
                     3. CVS and Aetna, a health insurer and benefits management company.
                     4. Heineken and Lagunitas Brewing Company, a craft beer company.
                     5. Walmart and Jet, an e-commerce company.


360. Mergers and acquisitions are often driven by such strategic objectives as to
                     1. expand a company’s geographic coverage, extend its business into new product categories, or gain quick access to new technologies or other resources and capabilities.
                     2. weaken the bargaining power of either key suppliers or key customers.
                     3. reduce the company’s vulnerability to industry driving forces.
                     4. facilitate a company’s shift from one type of competitive strategy to another.
                     5. secure a higher credit rating and better access to additional financial capital.


361. Merger and acquisition strategies
                     1. are never prone to mistakes, such as deciding which activities to leave alone and which activities to meld into their own operations and systems.
                     2. may offer considerable cost-saving opportunities and can be beneficial in helping a company try to invent a new industry and lead the convergence of industries whose boundaries are being blurred by changing technologies and new market opportunities.
                     3. are a particularly effective way of pursuing blue-ocean and outsourcing strategies.
                     4. seldom are a superior strategic alternative to forming alliances or partnerships with these same companies because of the financial drain of using the company’s cash resources to accomplish the merger or acquisition.
                     5. are one of the best ways to help a company strongly differentiate its product offering and use a differentiation strategy to strengthen its market position.


362. Why do mergers and acquisitions sometimes fail to produce anticipated results?
                     1. Cost savings exceed management’s wildest expectations.
                     2. The morale of key employees involved in the corporate combination reaches new highs because they embrace the changes.
                     3. Gains in competitive capabilities materialize rapidly, resulting in instant synergies.
                     4. Efforts to mesh corporate cultures meet with unconditional acceptance from organization members.
                     5. Differences in management styles and operating procedures can prove hard to resolve.


363. Mergers and acquisitions
                     1. are nearly always successful in achieving their desired purpose (unlike strategic alliances and collaborative partnerships).
                     2. all too frequently do not produce the hoped-for outcomes.
                     3. are generally more effective in securing a new competitive advantage than in protecting an existing competitive advantage.
                     4. are highly risky because of the financial drain that comes from using the company’s cash resources to pay for the costs of the merger or acquisition.
                     5. are usually more successful in helping a company’s shift from one competitive strategy to another than in improving a company’s competitive strength and resource capabilities.


364. Which of the following is not among the intended outcomes of horizontal merger and acquisition strategies?
                     1. extending the company’s business into new product categories
                     2. leading the convergence of industries whose boundaries are being blurred by changing technologies and new market opportunities
                     3. obtaining quick access to new technologies or complementary resources and capabilities
                     4. expanding a company’s geographic coverage
                     5. suppressing a rival’s breakthroughs in management or technology


365. Merger and acquisition strategies sometimes fail because of the
                     1. development of effective integration plans that would be conducive to employee satisfaction.
                     2. advertising messages that detail the merger announcement.
                     3. creation of management-employee programs that would foster better communication.
                     4. misinterpretation of the cultural differences, like employee disenchantment and low morale, differences in management styles and operating procedures, and operations integration decision mistakes.
                     5. execution of functional and integration activity, while sustaining and capitalizing on the combined sources of revenue.


366. Lululemon’s strategy to acquire Mirror, the home exercise startup, for $500 million in June 2020 was primarily intended to
                     1. take advantage of Mirror’s blue-ocean strategy.
                     2. create a more cost-efficient operation out of the combined companies.
                     3. facilitate Lululemon’s shift from a broad differentiation strategy to a focused differentiation strategy.
                     4. expand Lululemon’s geographic coverage.
                     5. lead the convergence of industries whose boundaries were being blurred by changing technologies and new market opportunities.


367. In April 2019, Airbnb’s acquired HotelTonight, the last-minute hotel booking application. This acquisition was UNLIKELY to have
                     1. created a more cost-efficient operation from the combination of the two companies.
                     2. enabled Airbnb to gain quick access to new technologies or other resources and capabilities.
                     3. suppressed its rival company Booking.com’s breakthroughs in management or technology.
                     4. extended Airbnb’s vacation rental business into new product categories.
                     5. afforded Airbnb with a leadership role in the convergence of the travel and vacation rental industries, whose boundaries were being blurred by changing technologies and new market opportunities.


368. Vertical integration strategies
                     1. extend a company’s competitive and operating scope because its operations extend across more parts of the total industry value chain.
                     2. are one of the best strategic options for helping companies win the race for global market leadership.
                     3. are a cost-effective means of expanding a company’s lineup of products and services.
                     4. are particularly effective in boosting a company’s ability to expand into additional geographic markets, particularly the markets of foreign countries.
                     5. are a good strategy option for improving a company’s supply chain management capabilities, pursuing efforts to remodel a company’s value chain, achieving direct control over the costs of performing value chain activities, and gaining access to buyers.


369. The two most compelling reasons for a company to pursue vertical integration (either forward or backward) are to
                     1. expand into foreign markets and/or control more of the industry value chain.
                     2. broaden the firm’s product line and/or avoid the need for outsourcing.
                     3. enable use of offensive strategies and/or gain a first-mover advantage over rivals in revamping the industry value chain.
                     4. strengthen the company’s competitive position and/or boost its profitability.
                     5. achieve product differentiation and/or lengthen the company’s value chain to include more activities performed in-house and thereby gain greater ability to reduce internal operating costs.


370. Which of the following is not a potential advantage of backward vertical integration?
                     1. the increase in a company’s differentiation capabilities and the possibility of a differentiation-based competitive advantage
                     2. reduced vulnerability to powerful suppliers (who may be inclined to raise prices at every opportunity)
                     3. reduced costs
                     4. reduced risks of disruptions in obtaining crucial components or support services
                     5. reduced business risk because of controlling a bigger portion of the overall industry value chain


371. A good example of backward vertical integration is a
                     1. maker of prescription pharmaceuticals acquiring a chain of drugstores.
                     2. consumer products manufacturer acquiring a supermarket chain.
                     3. crude oil refiner purchasing gas stations.
                     4. footwear manufacturer developing own-branded retail stores.
                     5. producer of organic vegetables deciding to acquire a compost company.


372. A good example of forward vertical integration is a
                     1. producer of organic vegetables deciding to acquire a compost company.
                     2. footwear manufacturer developing own-branded retail stores.
                     3. crude oil refiner purchasing an oil well drilling and exploration company.
                     4. hospital opening a nursing home for the aged.
                     5. maker of prescription drugs acquiring a chemical manufacturer.


373. The two best reasons for investing company resources in vertical integration (either forward or backward) are to
                     1. speed entry into foreign markets and/or exercise stronger control over operating costs.
                     2. broaden the firm’s product line and/or enable the company to charge a premium price for its product/service.
                     3. gain a first-mover advantage in adopting new production technologies and/or employ potent defensive strategies.
                     4. strengthen the company’s competitive position and/or boost its profitability.
                     5. achieve greater product differentiation and/or gain better access to prospective buyers.


374. For backward vertical integration into the business of suppliers to be a viable and profitable strategy, a company must
                     1. have considerable expertise in supply chain management, transportation logistics, and inventory control techniques.
                     2. be able to achieve the same scale economies as outside suppliers and match or beat suppliers’ production efficiency with no drop in quality.
                     3. have large state-of-the-art production facilities so that it can fully capture all economies of scale in producing parts and components.
                     4. have core competences in R&D, product design and engineering, and distribution logistics so that it will have adequate capabilities to produce and distribute parts and components in a timely and cost-effective manner.
                     5. have a distinctive competence in production process technology and at least a core competence in manufacturing R&D.


375. Which one of the following statements about backward vertical integration is false?
                     1. What makes backward vertical integration such an attractive strategic option is the opportunity to capture the profit margins of suppliers and thereby increase the company’s own profitability.
                     2. Backward vertical integration can produce a differentiation-based competitive advantage when a company, by performing activities internally rather than utilizing outside suppliers, ends up with a better-quality product/service offering, improves the caliber of its customer service, or in other ways enhances the performance of its final product.
                     3. For backward integration to be a viable and profitable strategy, a company must be able to (1) achieve the same scale economies as outside suppliers and (2) match or beat suppliers’ production efficiency with no drop in quality.
                     4. The best potential for being able to reduce costs via a backward integration strategy exists in situations where suppliers have outsized profit margins, where the item being supplied is a major cost component, and where the requisite technological skills are easily mastered or can be gained by acquiring a supplier with the desired technological know-how.
                     5. Potential advantages of backward integration include sparing a company the uncertainty of being dependent on suppliers for crucial components or support services and lessening a company’s vulnerability to powerful suppliers inclined to raise prices at every opportunity.


376. The strategic impetus for forward vertical integration is to
                     1. gain better access to end-users, improve market awareness, and/or include the end-user’s purchasing experience as a differentiating feature.
                     2. the opportunity to capture the profits being earned by forward distribution allies (and thereby increase the company’s own profits).
                     3. reduce or eliminate disruptions in the delivery of the company’s products to end-users.
                     4. avoid channel conflict.
                     5. expand a company’s geographic coverage.


377. Which of the following is typically the strategic impetus for forward vertical integration?
                     1. being able to control the wholesale/retail portion of the industry value chain
                     2. having fewer disruptions in the delivery of the company’s products to end-users
                     3. gaining better access to end-users and better market visibility
                     4. broadening the company’s product line
                     5. allowing the firm access to greater economies of scale


378. Bypassing regular sales channels in favor of Internet retailing can have strong appeal if it
                     1. raises distribution costs and ignores channel conflicts.
                     2. provides a relative cost disadvantage over rivals.
                     3. offers lower margins resulting in higher selling prices to end-users.
                     4. includes partnering rather than competing with existing distributors.
                     5. consists a significant social media component that creates channel conflict with dealers.


379. Which of the following is not a strategic disadvantage of vertical integration?
                     1. Vertical integration boosts a firm’s capital investment in the industry, thus increasing business risk if the industry becomes unattractive later.
                     2. Integrating backward into parts and components manufacture can impair a company’s operating flexibility when it comes to changing out the use of certain parts and components.
                     3. Vertical integration limits a company’s ability to achieve greater product differentiation and to exercise direct control over the costs of performing value chain activities.
                     4. Forward or backward integration often calls for radically different skills and business capabilities than the firm possesses.
                     5. Vertical integration poses all kinds of capacity-matching problems.


380. For a backward vertical integration strategy into the business of suppliers to be a viable and profitable, a company must possess
                     1. a distinctive competence in production process technology and at least a core competence in manufacturing R&D.
                     2. large state-of-the-art production facilities so that it can fully capture all economies of scale in producing parts and components.
                     3. considerable expertise in supply chain management, transportation logistics, and inventory control techniques.
                     4. the capability to achieve the same scale economies as outside suppliers and also match or beat suppliers’ production efficiency with no drop in quality.
                     5. all kinds of capacity-matching skills and capabilities.


381. Backward integration involves
                     1. performing industry value chain activities previously performed by suppliers or other companies engaged in earlier stages of the value chain.
                     2. linking with businesses within the array of value chain activities to eliminate competition and broaden the product offering.
                     3. capitalizing on company’s underutilized managerial capabilities for achieving greater synergistic cost advantages.
                     4. reducing the opportunity for achieving greater product differentiation.
                     5. developing new skills and business capabilities.


382. Outsourcing strategies
                     1. are nearly always a more attractive strategic option than merger and acquisition strategies.
                     2. carry the substantial risk of raising a company’s costs.
                     3. carry the substantial risk of making a company overly dependent on its suppliers.
                     4. increase a company’s risk exposure to changing technology and/or changing buyer preferences.
                     5. involve farming out value chain activities presently performed in-house to outside specialists and strategic allies.


383. The two big drivers of outsourcing are
                     1. a desire to reduce the company’s investment in fixed assets and the need to narrow the scope of the company’s in-house competencies and competitive capabilities.
                     2. an increased ability to cut R&D expenses and an increased ability to avoid the problems of strategic alliances.
                     3. that a smaller in-house workforce and a low investment in intellectual capital will produce cost savings.
                     4. the ability to avoid capital investments that accompany vertical integration and a desire to reduce the company’s risk exposure to changing technology and/or changing buyer preferences.
                     5. that outsiders can often perform certain activities better or more cheaply, and outsourcing allows a firm to focus its entire energies on those activities that are at the center of its expertise (its core competencies).


384. The big risk of employing an outsourcing strategy is
                     1. the increased time it takes to respond effectively to the fresh strategic moves of rival firms.
                     2. hollowing out the competitive capabilities a company needs to be a master of its own destiny.
                     3. impairing a company’s capability to be a leader in product innovation.
                     4. increased vulnerability to shifts in buyer demand.
                     5. increased costs of differentiating the company’s product/service from those of competitors.


385. Which of the following is not one of the key benefits of employing an outsourcing strategy?
                     1. It allows a company to concentrate on its core business, leverage its key resources and core competencies, and do even better what it already does best.
                     2. It can hollow out a firm’s own capabilities and lose touch with activities and expertise that contribute fundamentally to the firm’s competitiveness and market success.
                     3. It reduces the company’s risk exposure to changing technology and/or buyer preferences.
                     4. It improves organizational flexibility and speeds time to market.
                     5. It involves an activity that can be performed better or more cheaply by outside specialists.


386. Imagine you are advising a local low-cost construction business that is considering narrowing its focus into commercial construction while outsourcing affordable residential construction. What would be your primary justification for the benefits of outsourcing?
                     1. when internal control over a value chain activity is deemed essential
                     2. when a value chain activity can be performed better or more cheaply by outside specialists and improves organizational flexibility
                     3. when a firm’s own resources and capabilities are not suitable for backward or forward integration
                     4. when it increases the company’s ability to raise funds to invest in other value chain activities
                     5. when it allows a company to concentrate repairing the broken links in its value chain


387. You have been hired as a strategic planning consultant to Acre Pizza, a regional chain of outdoor dining pizza restaurants that is deciding whether or not to outsource home deliveries to third parties such as Grubhub, DoorDash, or UberEats. What would be the major drawback of outsourcing this value chain activity?
                     1. Acre Pizza farms out the wrong types of activities, loses direct control over deliveries, and thereby hollows out its own capabilities.
                     2. Acre Pizza’s ability to lead the development of innovative new products may be weakened in the outsourcing process.
                     3. Acre Pizza’s management becomes obsessed with monitoring and coordinating the activities of outside delivery suppliers.
                     4. Acre Pizza loses flexibility in accommodating its delivery partners with just-in-time orders.
                     5. Investors and owners of the proposed delivery partners fail to fund those innovations specific to the needs of Acre Pizza’s value chain.


388. Throwback Brewery, a New Hampshire-based craft beer and hospitality business located on a 12-acre working farm, is considering a backward vertical integration strategy into supplying its own hops for brewing beer, as hops is one of the major cost components for brewing craft beer. For this action to be viable and profitable, Throwback Brewery must possess
                     1. large state-of-the-art growing and production facilities so that it can fully capture all economies of scale in producing parts and components.
                     2. excess production capacity so that it has an ample in-house ability to undertake additional production activities.
                     3. the capability to achieve the same scale economies as outside suppliers of hops and also match or beat suppliers’ production efficiency with no drop in quality.
                     4. a distinctive competence in hops growing and production process technology and at least a core competence in R&D to develop new strains of hops.
                     5. considerable expertise in supply chain management, transportation logistics, and inventory control techniques.


389. Dolce & Gabbana outsources the manufacture of its brand of sunglasses to Luxottica—a company considered to be the world’s best sunglass manufacturing company, known for its Oakley, Costa Del Mar, and Ray-Ban brands. Outsourcing is most beneficial
                     1. when internal control over a value chain activity is deemed essential.
                     2. when a value chain activity can be performed better or more cheaply by outside specialists and improves organizational flexibility.
                     3. when a firm’s own resources and capabilities are not suitable for backward or forward integration.
                     4. when it increases the company’s ability to raise funds to invest in other value chain activities.
                     5. when it allows a company to concentrate repairing the broken links in its value chain.


390. A strategic alliance
                     1. is a collaborative arrangement in which companies join forces to defeat mutual competitive rivals.
                     2. involves two or more companies joining forces to pursue vertical integration.
                     3. is a formal agreement between two or more companies in which there is strategically relevant collaboration of some sort, joint contribution of resources, shared risk, shared control, and mutual dependence.
                     4. is a partnership between two companies that is typically intended to eliminate the need to engage in outsourcing.
                     5. is usually a cheaper and more effective way for companies to join forces than is a merger.


391. The competitive attraction of entering into strategic alliances and collaborative partnerships is
                     1. in allowing companies to bundle resources and competencies that are more valuable in a joint effort than when kept separate.
                     2. reducing costs, transferring skills, and expanding the product line.
                     3. enabling greater vertical integration.
                     4. in allowing the partners to transfer intellectual property rights and proprietary information.
                     5. in helping the partners to increase their respective market shares.


392. Toyota and Panasonic formed a strategic alliance known as Primearth EV Co. in order to develop new batteries with improved prismatic cells for pure electric cars. This alliance is known as a
                     1. partnership.
                     2. joint liability company.
                     3. joint venture.
                     4. dual proprietorship.
                     5. socially responsible partnership.


393. Entering into strategic alliances and collaborative partnerships can be competitively valuable because
                     1. these represent two highly effective ways for firms to achieve low-cost leadership and capture first-mover advantages.
                     2. these two strategies are a powerful means for companies to build loyalty and goodwill among customers that possess diverse needs and expectations.
                     3. they are quite effective in helping a company transfer the risks of threatening external developments to other companies.
                     4. working closely with outsiders is essential in developing new technologies and new products in virtually every industry.
                     5. cooperative arrangements with other companies are very helpful in racing against rivals to build a strong global presence and/or racing to seize opportunities on the frontiers of advancing technology.


394. Strategic alliances are more likely to be long-lasting when
                     1. they involve collaboration with suppliers or distribution allies or when both parties conclude that continued collaboration is in their mutual interests.
                     2. the alliance involves partners based in countries with distinctly different cultures and consumer buying habits and preferences.
                     3. both partners are experienced with strategic alliances and routinely enter into collaborative agreements with firms in peripheral industries.
                     4. the alliance involves joining forces in R&D to develop new technologies cheaper than a company could develop the technology on its own.
                     5. each partner has considerable resource weaknesses in the marketplace.


395. The July 2022 alliance between Grubhub and Amazon to form a new food delivery service called Grubhub+, which is free to Amazon Prime members, can be called “strategic” because it serves all the following strategic purposes except
                     1. opens up important new health care market opportunities for both alliance members.
                     2. contracts out certain value chain activities by both parties to outside vendors.
                     3. accelerates drug development and bring new therapies to patients sooner than if each party had “gone it alone.”
                     4. blocks a competitive threat from Amazon to become a health care industry player.
                     5. builds, sustains, or enhances Microsoft’s core competence in artificial intelligence.


396. Experience indicates that strategic alliances
                     1. are generally successful.
                     2. work well in cooperatively developing new technologies and new products but seldom work well in promoting greater supply chain efficiency.
                     3. work best when they are aimed at achieving a mutually beneficial competitive advantage for the allies.
                     4. stand a reasonable chance of helping a company reduce competitive disadvantage but very rarely form the basis of a durable competitive advantage over rivals.
                     5. are usually a company’s best approach to building a distinctive competence.


397. In June 2022, H. Moser & Cie., an independent Swiss watch brand primarily known for its Streamliner watches, teamed up with the Los Angeles-based urban streetwear and sneaker brand, Undefeated. According to Edouard Meylan, CEO of H. Moser and Cie., “Undefeated has this huge community of people who just love aesthetics and who have street culture and attitude. People willing to spend $1,000 on a pair of sneakers can buy our watches.” The alliance between Moser & Cie. and Undefeated can be called “strategic” because it serves all the following strategic purposes except
                     1. opening up important new fashion market opportunities for both alliance members.
                     2. contracting out certain value chain activities by both parties to outside vendors.
                     3. accelerating new product development and bringing new fashion watches to market sooner than if each party had “gone it alone.”
                     4. defending competitive threats from rivals such as Huf, Nasty Girl, or RVCA, to enter the wearable fashion market.
                     5. builds, sustains, or enhances H. Moser & Cie.’s core competence in watchmaking and design.


398. Among the principal advantages of strategic alliances over vertical integration or horizontal mergers/acquisitions are
                     1. resource pooling and risk sharing, more adaptive response capabilities, and greater speed of deployment.
                     2. material additions to a company’s technological capabilities, strengthening of the firm’s competitive position, and boosting of its profitability.
                     3. the transactional and relational concepts of operating practices and competencies.
                     4. potential profitability of the alliance and related experience-curve economics.
                     5. the facilitation of best practices, more production capacity, and relevant synergistic savings.


399. The Achilles’ heel (or biggest danger/pitfall) of relying heavily on alliances and cooperative strategies is
                     1. that partners will not divide profits from the alliance in an equitable manner.
                     2. becoming dependent on other companies for essential expertise and capabilities.
                     3. incurring excessive administrative expenses associated with engaging in collaborative efforts.
                     4. having to compromise the company’s own priorities and strategies in reaching agreements with partners.
                     5. that strategic allies frequently become rivals in the marketplace.


400. Maria, the owner/CEO of a local HR recruiting and staffing company, is considering a strategic alliance with Patricia, the owner/CEO of a local payroll company. What would not likely be a consideration for Maria and Patricia with respect to whether the proposed alliance could become successful and realize its intended benefits?
                     1. ensuring that both parties live up to their commitments
                     2. being sensitive to cultural differences between the two companies
                     3. structuring the decision-making process so actions can be taken swiftly when needed
                     4. recognizing that the alliance must benefit both sides
                     5. minimizing the cost of resources that the respective partners commit to the alliance


401. In 2018, Suelin Chen and Mark Zheng cofounded Cake, a free social media app that catalogs users’ end-of-life wishes, instructions, and documents such as obituaries. Cake, based in Boston, makes money through strategic partnerships primarily with health care providers and will eventually add fee-based premium services in global markets. Cake has decided to expand outside its U.S. home market via a strategic alliance in order to
                     1. gain access to resources and capabilities located in foreign markets.
                     2. gain access to new customers for the company’s products/services.
                     3. compete with rival global social media providers such as WeChat and TikTok.
                     4. achieve differentiation through economies of scale, experience, and increased purchasing power.
                     5. identify newer and stronger resources and capabilities in its home market.


402. Companies opt to expand into foreign markets in order to
                     1. grow sales faster than the industry average, reduce the competitive threats from rivals, and open up more opportunities to enter into strategic alliances.
                     2. boost returns on investment, broaden their product lines, avoid tariffs and trade restrictions, and escape dealing with strong labor unions.
                     3. avoid having to employ an export strategy, avoid the threat of cross-market subsidization from rivals, and enable the use of a global strategy instead of a multidomestic strategy.
                     4. raise the entry barriers for industry newcomers, neutralize the bargaining power of important suppliers, grow sales faster, and increase the number of loyal customers.
                     5. gain access to new customers, achieve lower costs, enhance the company’s competitiveness, capitalize on core competencies, and spread business risk across a wider market base.


403. Tiffany & Co. opted to enter into the mining industry in Canada in order to
                     1. exploit its core competencies and capabilities.
                     2. access diamonds that could be certified as “conflict-free” and not associated with unethical mining practices or the finding of military activities in Africa.
                     3. to achieve lower costs, thereby enhancing the firm’s competitiveness.
                     4. gain access to new customers in new markets.
                     5. achieve lower costs and enhance the firm’s competitiveness.


404. Whirlpool’s efforts to link its product R&D and manufacturing operations in North America, Latin America, Europe, and Asia did not enable the company to
                     1. accelerate the discovery of innovative appliance features.
                     2. coordinate the introduction of these features in the appliance products marketed in different countries.
                     3. create a cost-efficient worldwide supply chain.
                     4. speed product innovations to market and achieve operational excellence.
                     5. impart technical knowledge to high-cost human resources in developing nations.


405. Kia has obtained the experience needed to upgrade its capabilities to a higher performance standard by entering international markets primarily because its initial customer base in South Korea
                     1. contributes to a guaranteed recipe for competitive success.
                     2. supports the resource buildup needed to achieve depth in a developing or protected market.
                     3. poses challenges to a weaker set of international competitors.
                     4. provides a comparative advantage.
                     5. too small to support the resource buildup needed to achieve such depth.


406. Which of the following is not a possible reason why Walgreens opted to expand into foreign markets via a partnership with and followed by the acquisition of Boots Alliance?
                     1. because the two companies had conflicting objectives and strategies, deep differences of opinion about how to proceed, and important differences in corporate values and ethical standards
                     2. because Walgreens desired to accelerate its entry into foreign markets as well as complementary assets and expertise
                     3. because Walgreens wanted to capitalize on Boots Alliance’s company competencies and capabilities in distribution, thus enabling Walgreens to leverage that network and expertise to build a similar model in the United States
                     4. because Walgreens was pursuing an international strategy that would enable it to gain access to new customers in new markets
                     5. because Walgreens intended to spread its business risk across a wider geographic market base as well as increase its bargaining power with drug companies


407. Exxon Mobil has entered into a pact with Gazprom, the world’s largest natural gas extractor, to set up a processing unit in Baku, Azerbaijan. Which of the following is most likely the reason for Exxon Mobil to opt for this strategic alliance?
                     1. to better compete with Gazprom
                     2. to scale back its core competencies
                     3. to gain access to low-cost inputs of production
                     4. to gain access to new customers in new markets
                     5. to restrict its factors of production


408. One of the biggest strategic challenges to competing in the international arena include
                     1. how to avoid the risks of shifting exchange rates.
                     2. whether to charge the same price in all country markets.
                     3. how many foreign firms to license to produce and distribute the company’s products.
                     4. whether to offer a mostly standardized product worldwide or whether to customize the company’s offerings in each different country market to match the tastes and preferences of local buyers.
                     5. whether to pursue a global strategy or an international strategy.


409. Why do companies decide to enter a foreign market?
                     1. to exploit the natural resources found within its home market
                     2. to decrease the rate at which they accumulate experience and move up the learning curve
                     3. to raise input costs through greater pooled purchasing power
                     4. to capture economies of scale in product development, manufacturing, or marketing
                     5. to concentrate risk within a broader base of countries, especially when sales are down in one area and the company can undermine sales elsewhere


410. Which of the following is not a reason why a company decides to enter foreign markets?
                     1. to impart technical knowledge to high-cost human resources in developing nations
                     2. to capitalize on company competencies and capabilities
                     3. to spread business risk across a wider geographic market base
                     4. to capture economies of scale in product development, manufacturing, or marketing
                     5. to achieve lower costs through economies of scale, experience, and increased purchasing power


411. Which of the following is not an accurate statement concerning competing in the markets of foreign countries?
                     1. Localizing Apple’s product offerings country-by-country leads to its low-cost advantage.
                     2. Ferrari, Maserati, and Ducati are located in an industry cluster in Italy known as the “engine technological district.”
                     3. There are country-to-country differences in Kellogg’s cereal customers’ buying habits and buyer tastes and preferences.
                     4. Venezuela’s nationalization of a GM manufacturing plant is an example of a government pursuing state capitalism in industries deemed to be of national importance.
                     5. Ulta Beauty’s cosmetic products considered suitable for Chinese consumers are often inappropriate in Singapore and Malaysia.


412. You have been asked to consult with Sonic.net, a regional Internet service provider, about the advisability of competing abroad. Your assessment of the opportunities for Sonic.net to craft a strategy to compete in one or more countries in the world would not necessarily
                     1. evaluate country-to-country differences in consumer buying habits and buyer tastes and preferences.
                     2. evaluate country-to-country variations in host-government restrictions and requirements and fluctuating exchange rates, company’s offerings in each different country’s market, or whether to offer a mostly standardized product worldwide.
                     3. evaluate in which countries to locate company operations for maximum locational advantage, given country-to-country variations in wage rates, worker productivity, energy costs, tax rates, and the like.
                     4. evaluate a multidomestic strategy that considers the world market as a mostly homogeneous market.


413. Nikki, CEO of an aspiring multinational craft vodka company, is researching cross-country differences in demographic, cultural, and market conditions. She would not likely discover that
                     1. Nike produces its own line of skate shoes.
                     2. Keurig has acquired a large coffee farm in Costa Rica.
                     3. Latvia makes low-cost loans to U.S. vodka distillers to stimulate competition in its market.
                     4. Intel’s silicon chips are identical across the world.
                     5. McDonald’s offers 100 percent beef-free products in its outlets in India.


414. The 2015 merger of Walgreen Boots Alliance, one of the world’s largest pharmaceutical purchasers, is not likely to
                     1. reduce the significant risks of fluctuating exchange rates to its competitiveness in foreign markets.
                     2. avoid the effects of fluctuations in exchange rates on the costs of manufacturing goods in a particular country.
                     3. succeed when the currency of the country from which the goods are being exported grows weaker relative to the currencies of the countries that the goods are being exported to.
                     4. see the advantages of manufacturing goods in a particular country erode when that country’s currency grows stronger relative to the currencies of the countries where the output is being sold.
                     5. come under pressure from lower-cost imports if local currency grows weaker in relation to the currencies of the countries where the imported goods are being made.


415. Teresa, CEO of a multinational tourism and leisure company, is researching cross-country differences in demographic, cultural, and market conditions. She would not likely discover that
                     1. Nike produces its own line of skate shoes.
                     2. Keurig has acquired a large coffee farm in Costa Rica.
                     3. Scotland provides low-costs loans to U.S. craft whisky distillers seeking entry to its markets in order to stimulate competitive rivalry.
                     4. Intel’s silicon chips are identical across the world.
                     5. McDonald’s offers 100 percent beef-free products in its outlets in India.


416. Market size and growth rates in different countries can be influenced positively or negatively by
                     1. population sizes, income levels and cultural influences, the current state of the infrastructure, and distribution and retail networks available.
                     2. the ability of management to tailor a strategy to take into consideration country differences.
                     3. the large size of emerging markets such as China and India.
                     4. competitive rivalry that is only moderate in some countries.
                     5. the absence or presence of low trade barriers.


417. Which of the following is not a factor surrounding the decision to enter into the markets of foreign countries?
                     1. market growth rates that vary from country to country
                     2. country-by-country differences in consumer tastes and buying habits
                     3. fluctuating exchange rates and country-by-country variations in host-government restrictions and requirements
                     4. product designs that may be suitable for one country but inappropriate for another
                     5. repatriation of foreign company assets by governments in countries outside of home market(s)


418. Competing in the markets of foreign countries entails dealing with such factors except
                     1. fluctuating exchange rates, country-to-country variations in host-government restrictions and requirements, and variations in cultural, demographic, and market conditions.
                     2. important country-to-country differences in consumer buying habits and buyer tastes and preferences.
                     3. whether to customize the company’s offerings in each different country market or whether to offer a mostly standardized product worldwide.
                     4. the fact that product designs suitable for one country are sometimes inappropriate in another.
                     5. the prevalence of global brands.


419. Competing in the markets of foreign countries generally does not involve which of the following?
                     1. country-by-country differences in consumer buying habits, tastes, and preferences
                     2. country-by-country variations in host-government regulations, fluctuating exchange rates, and economic policies
                     3. choices to customize the company’s offerings to each country market or to offer a primarily standardized product to all markets around the globe
                     4. choices to locate company operations on the basis of variations in wages rates, worker productivity, energy costs, tax rates, and distribution channels
                     5. crafting a multicountry strategy that can transform the world market into one big profit sanctuary


420. What is not likely to guide Four Seasons Hotels’ strategic approach to develop new properties in the Middle East and Southeast Asia?
                     1. combining local architectural and cultural experiences with globally consistent luxury service
                     2. identifying and contracting with a local capital partner who has an understanding of local custom and business relationships
                     3. hiring a local architect and design consultant for each new property
                     4. assessing the future growth potential of these emerging markets
                     5. striving to create one uniform customer experience globally


421. Competitive advantages of manufacturing goods in a particular country and exporting them to foreign markets
                     1. are largely unaffected by fluctuating exchange rates.
                     2. are greatest when local distributors and dealers in that country can be convinced not to carry products that are made outside the country’s borders.
                     3. can be wiped out when that country’s currency grows weaker relative to the currencies of the countries where the output is being sold.
                     4. are eroded when the manufacturing country’s home currency strengthens relative to the currencies of the foreign countries where the output is being sold.
                     5. are seriously compromised by the potential for local government officials to raise tariffs on the imports of foreign-made goods into their country.


422. Which of the following statements concerning the effects of fluctuating exchange rates on companies competing in foreign markets is true?
                     1. Fluctuating exchange rates pose no significant risks to a company’s competitiveness in foreign markets.
                     2. Competitive advantages of manufacturing goods in a particular country are largely unaffected by fluctuating exchange rates.
                     3. Exporters are advantaged when the currency of the country where goods are being manufactured grows stronger.
                     4. Exporters always gain in cost/price competitiveness when the currency of the country in which the goods are manufactured is weak.
                     5. Exporters always lose in cost/price competitiveness when the currency of the country in which the goods are manufactured is weak.


423. Government host policies are not likely to increase a country’s political and economic risks when
                     1. the national government is unstable or weak.
                     2. incentives such as reduced taxes, low-cost loans, and site-development assistance are provided to companies agreeing to construct or expand production and distribution facilities.
                     3. there is distress in the country’s monetary system.
                     4. there are threats from piracy and lack of protection for the company’s intellectual property.
                     5. there is new onerous legislation or regulations on foreign-owned businesses.


424. The strategic options for expansion into foreign markets include all of the following except
                     1. employing a franchising strategy.
                     2. maintaining a national (one-country) production base and exporting goods to foreign markets.
                     3. licensing foreign firms to produce and distribute one’s products.
                     4. establishing a subsidiary in a foreign market.
                     5. creating products and services that are not subject to tariffs and local regulations.


425. Imagine that you are the manager of an aspiring multinational social media company. What would not be a strategic reason for your company to expand outside your domestic market to improve its overall competitiveness?
                     1. to seek a profit sanctuary
                     2. to develop export markets
                     3. to create new licensing opportunities
                     4. to establish a subsidiary in a foreign market
                     5. to franchise operations under local ownership


426. Which of the following is an example of an export strategy?
                     1. Facebook generates 51 percent of its advertising revenue outside the United States.
                     2. American Airlines’ common stock, owned by AMR Corp., is not available for public purchase.
                     3. The popular Harry Potter character Voldemort can only be leased or rented for use by amusement park operators.
                     4. ZipCar allows taxi fleet operators to use its trademarks, services, and products for a fee.
                     5. The United States is home to the world’s three largest producers and suppliers of artificial heart valves.


427. Using domestic plants as a production base for exporting goods to selected foreign country markets
                     1. can be an excellent initial strategy to pursue international sales.
                     2. can be a competitively successful strategy when a company is focusing on vacant market niches in each foreign country.
                     3. works well when a firm does not have the financial resources to employ cross-market subsidization.
                     4. is usually a weak strategy when competitors are pursuing multicountry strategies.
                     5. can be a powerful strategy because the company is not vulnerable to fluctuating exchange rates.


428. The advantages of using an export strategy to build a customer base in foreign markets include
                     1. being able to minimize shipping costs, avoid tariffs, and curb the effects of fluctuating exchange rates.
                     2. minimizing capital requirements and involvement in foreign markets.
                     3. being cheaper and more cost effective than licensing and franchising.
                     4. being cheaper and more cost effective than a multicountry strategy.
                     5. facilitating the establishment of profit sanctuaries in foreign countries and being more suited to accommodating local buyer tastes than a global strategy.


429. The advantages of using a licensing strategy to participate in foreign markets include
                     1. being especially well suited to the use of cross-market subsidization.
                     2. being able to charge lower prices than rivals.
                     3. enabling a company to achieve competitive advantage quickly and easily.
                     4. being able to leverage the company’s technical know-how or patents without committing significant additional resources to markets that are unfamiliar, politically volatile, economically uncertain, or otherwise risky.
                     5. being able to achieve higher product quality and better product performance than with an export strategy.


430. The advantages of using a franchising strategy to pursue opportunities in foreign markets include
                     1. franchisees bear most of the costs and risks of establishing foreign locations, and the franchisor is required to expend only the resources to recruit, train, and support foreign franchisees.
                     2. its being particularly well suited to the global expansion efforts of companies with multicountry strategies.
                     3. the ability to build multiple profit sanctuaries.
                     4. its being particularly well suited to companies that employ cross-market subsidization.
                     5. its being particularly well suited to the global expansion efforts of manufacturers.


431. Imagine you have been hired as a consultant to Miyoko’s Creamery, a California-based manufacturer and marketer of vegan food products that substitute for butter and cheese, about the company’s strategic options for expansion into potentially lucrative Pacific Rim markets. What mode of entry would you most likely recommend to Miyoko’s Creamery?
                     1. Establish a profit sanctuary in the Pacific Rim.
                     2. Sell the company to a competitor located in the Pacific Rim.
                     3. Agree to a significant level of local content in the manufacture of products.
                     4. Rely on Pacific Rim governments to restrict imports via raising tariffs and instituting local content requirements.
                     5. Maintain its U.S. production base and export products to Pacific Rim markets.


432. Establishing a wholly-owned subsidiary in a foreign market to take advantage of all essential value chain activities requires a strategy that
                     1. establishes a wholly-owned subsidiary.
                     2. acquires a foreign company.
                     3. supports direct control over all aspects of operating in a foreign market.
                     4. establishes a startup operation.
                     5. creates multiple country value chains to attain and sustain a competitive advantage in all markets served.


433. Acquisition of an existing firm rather than via internal development may be the least risky and cost-efficient means of overcoming entry barriers such as
                     1. rapidly building a strong market presence.
                     2. moving directly to the task of transferring resources and personnel, and integrating and redirecting activities into the acquiring firm’s operation.
                     3. gaining access to local distribution networks, building supplier networks, and establishing working relationships with key government officials.
                     4. fast-tracking exports into a foreign market by marketing indirectly thru local rivals.
                     5. putting the acquiring firm’s strategy into place.


434. Which of the following is an example of a cross-border alliance?
                     1. Hyundai Motor Company plans to open a new manufacturing plant in the Czech Republic.
                     2. Carrefour, a French grocery chain, established a new wholly-owned venture in Poland.
                     3. Facebook took over WhatsApp for $19 billion in February 2014.
                     4. The insurance company Geico is a wholly owned subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway.
                     5. Renault-Nissan sells more than 1 in 10 cars worldwide.


435. Your classmate, Ming-Chi, is considering strategies for Chinese market entry by her Napa-based luxury wine company, and she has asked you for advice. What would you be least likely to advise Ming-Chi to do?
                     1. Develop a startup subsidiary in China that has the size, cost structure, and resources to compete head-to-head against local rivals.
                     2. Add new wine production capacity in China even if doing so might adversely impact the supply-demand balance in the local market.
                     3. Enter China via internal development and build a foreign subsidiary from scratch.
                     4. Use her company’s resources and competencies to rapidly equip a new subsidiary in China.
                     5. Develop a startup subsidiary that can capitalize on her Napa winery’s brand name to gain good distribution access in China.


436. Which of the following is not a potential benefit of strategic alliances or other cooperative arrangements between foreign and domestic companies?
                     1. obtaining wider access to attractive country markets
                     2. gaining better access to scale economies in production and/or marketing
                     3. filling competitively important gaps in technical expertise and/or knowledge of local markets
                     4. safeguarding the company’s dependence, allowing for positive engagement once the purpose has been served and ensuring products of important technical standardization requirements are not developed
                     5. sharing distribution facilities and dealer networks, thus mutually strengthening access to buyers


437. A cross-border alliance was not created when
                     1. Yum! Brands offered KFC franchises in China.
                     2. Walmart and Rakuten Kobo Inc. partnered to enable Walmart to begin selling eBooks and audiobooks in the United States, and also establish a grocery delivery service in Japan.
                     3. Amazon Web Services partnered with Blackberry QNX, an Ottawa, Canada–based security software developer to an Intelligent Vehicle Data Platform named BlackBerry IVY.
                     4. Deutsch, a New York–based wine importer, and Casella, an Australian wine producer, developed and marketed the Yellowtail wine brand.
                     5. Walgreens in the United States partnered with the U.K. pharmaceutical giant AllianceBoots, which had a global footprint with 3,300 stores across 10 countries.


438. When a company operates in the markets of two or more different countries, its foremost strategic decision is
                     1. whether to use strategic alliances to help defeat its rivals.
                     2. whether to vary the company’s competitive approach to fit specific market conditions and buyer preferences in each host country or whether to employ essentially the same strategy in all countries.
                     3. whether to maintain a national (one-country) manufacturing base and export goods to the other countries.
                     4. which foreign companies to team up with via strategic alliances or joint ventures.
                     5. whether to test the waters with an export strategy before committing to some other competitive approach.


439. A think-local, act-local multidomestic type of strategy
                     1. is very risky, given fluctuating exchange rates and the propensity of foreign governments to impose tariffs on imported goods.
                     2. is usually defeated by a think-global, act-global type of strategy.
                     3. is more appealing the bigger the country-to-country differences in buyer tastes, cultural traditions, and marketing methods.
                     4. is generally an inferior strategy when one or more foreign competitors is pursuing a global low-cost strategy.
                     5. can defeat a global strategy if the think-local, act-local multidomestic strategist concentrates its efforts exclusively in those foreign markets where it has profit sanctuaries.


440. The strength of a think-local, act-local multidomestic strategy is that
                     1. it matches a company’s competitive approach to prevailing market and competitive conditions in each country market.
                     2. each of a company’s country strategies is almost totally different from and unrelated to its strategies in other countries.
                     3. the plants located in different countries can be operated independently of one another, thus promoting greater achievement of scale economies.
                     4. it avoids host-country ownership requirements, and import quotas.
                     5. it eliminates the costs and burdens of trying to coordinate the strategic moves undertaken in one country with the moves undertaken in the other countries.


441. A think-local, act-local multidomestic strategy works particularly well when
                     1. host governments relax regulations requiring that products sold locally meet strictly defined manufacturing specifications or performance standards.
                     2. there are few country-to-country differences in customer preferences and buying habits.
                     3. diverse and complicated trade restrictions of host governments preclude the use of a uniform strategy from country to country.
                     4. there are few country-to-country differences in distribution channels and marketing methods.
                     5. companies centralize strategy-making in global headquarters.


442. The drawbacks of a localized multidomestic strategy include
                     1. hindering the use of cross-market subsidization techniques and increasing company vulnerability to adverse shifts in currency exchange rates.
                     2. the difficulty in taking into account significant country-to-country differences in distribution channels and marketing methods.
                     3. the difficulty in and costs of being responsive to country-to-country differences in customer needs, buying habits, cultural traditions, and market conditions.
                     4. hindering transfer of a company’s competencies and resources across country boundaries, and hindering the pursuit of a single, uniform competitive advantage in all country markets where a company operates.
                     5. being unsuitable for competing in the markets of emerging countries and posing added difficulty in building multiple profit sanctuaries.


443. Two major drawbacks of a think-local, act-local multidomestic strategy are
                     1. that it is especially vulnerable to fluctuating exchange rates and can usually be defeated by companies employing cross-market subsidization tactics.
                     2. excessive vulnerability to fluctuating exchange rates and having to craft a separate strategy for each country market in which the company competes.
                     3. hindering a company’s transfer of competencies and resources across country boundaries (since somewhat different competencies and capabilities are likely to be employed in different host countries) and not promoting the building of a single, unified competitive advantage in all country markets where a company competes.
                     4. greater exposure to both increases in tariffs and restrictive trade barriers, and added difficulty in accommodating the diverse trade restrictions and regulatory requirements of host governments.
                     5. not being able to export products manufactured in one country to markets in other countries and being largely unsuitable for competing in the markets of emerging countries.


444. A localized or multidomestic strategy
                     1. is generally preferable to a global strategy in situations where buyers are price sensitive because a “think-local, act-local” type of multidomestic strategy is better suited to achieving low unit costs than a global strategy.
                     2. involves much less adherence to using the same basic competitive strategy theme (low-cost, differentiation, best-cost, or focused) in all country markets.
                     3. is generally best suited for globally standardized industries, in which small country-by-country differences can be accommodated.
                     4. is generally inferior to a global strategy when it comes to pursuing product differentiation.
                     5. has two big drawbacks: (1) it hinders transfer of a company’s competencies and resources across country boundaries because the strategies in different host countries can be grounded in varying competencies and capabilities; and (2) it does not promote building a single, unified competitive advantage, especially one based on low cost.


445. A think-global, act-global approach to strategy-making is preferable to a think-local, act-local approach when
                     1. a big majority of the company’s rivals are pursuing localized multidomestic strategies.
                     2. country-by-country differences are small enough to be accommodated within the framework of a mostly uniform global strategy.
                     3. plants need to be scattered across many countries to avoid high shipping costs.
                     4. market growth rates vary considerably from country to country.
                     5. host governments enact regulations requiring that products sold locally meet strict manufacturing specifications or performance standards.


446. Véronique is the CEO of a wind power energy company. Identify which company model she could emulate to craft a multidomestic strategy.
                     1. Intel strongly encourages its trading partners to use the UN/EDIFACT ISO standard ISO 9735 for syntax and data exchange.
                     2. Four Seasons Hotels deftly combines local architectural and cultural experiences with globally consistent luxury service.
                     3. BP markets gasoline in the United States under its BP and Arco brands, but markets gasoline in Germany, Belgium, Poland, Hungary, and the Czech Republic under the Aral brand.
                     4. Ford Motors establishes its own ride-sharing business in Mumbai, India.
                     5. Vueling, a low-cost carrier based in Spain, adapts its price to competitive pressures from Norwegian Air, RyanAir, and EasyJet.


447. Electronic Arts, similar to most companies that operate internationally, endeavors to employ as global a strategy as local customer needs and market conditions will permit via a
                     1. profit sanctuary strategy, in which a company derives substantial profits because of a strong or protected market position.
                     2. pace of foreign country development strategy, which enables it to overcome more than one factor on Michael E. Porter’s Diamond of National Competitive Advantage.
                     3. country-mapping strategy, which is its strategic architecture for competing in two or more countries simultaneously.
                     4. glocalization strategy, which incorporates elements of both a globalized and a localized approach to strategy-making.
                     5. global strategy to better able to focus its full resources on securing a sustainable low-cost or differentiation-based competitive advantage over both domestic rivals and global rivals.


448. The transnational approach of a firm using a think-global, act-local version of a global strategy entails
                     1. producing and marketing a variety of product versions under the same brand name, with each different version being designed specifically to accommodate the needs and preferences of buyers in a particular country.
                     2. little or no strategy coordination across countries.
                     3. pursuing the same basic competitive strategy theme (low-cost, differentiation, best-cost, focused) in all countries where the firm does business but giving local managers some latitude to adjust product attributes to better satisfy local buyers and to adjust production, distribution, and marketing to be responsive to local market conditions.
                     4. selling the company’s products under a wide variety of brand names (often one brand for each country or group of neighboring countries) so that buyers in each country market will think they are buying a locally made brand.
                     5. selling numerous product versions (each customized to buyer tastes in one or more countries and sometimes branded for each country) but opting to only sell direct to buyers at the company’s website so as to bypass the costs of establishing networks of wholesale/retail dealers in each country market.


449. The competitive strategy of a firm pursuing a think-global, act-local approach to strategy-making
                     1. entails little or no strategy coordination across countries.
                     2. usually involves cross-subsidizing the prices in those markets where there are significant country-to-country differences in the product attributes that customers are most interested in.
                     3. involves selling a mostly standardized product worldwide but varying a company’s use of distribution channels and marketing approaches to accommodate local market conditions.
                     4. is essentially the same in all country markets where it competes, but it may nonetheless give local managers room to make minor variations where necessary to better satisfy local buyers and to better match local market conditions.
                     5. involves having strongly differentiated product versions for different countries and selling them under distinctly different brand names (one for each country or group of neighboring countries) so that there will be no doubt in customers’ minds that the product is more local than global.


450. When expanding outside its domestic market, a company can gain competitive advantage by
                     1. not pursuing costly efforts to build multiple profit sanctuaries.
                     2. deliberately choosing not to compete in countries with high tariffs and high taxes (which then have to be passed along to buyers in the form of higher prices), thus keeping costs and prices lower than rivals’.
                     3. using an export strategy to circumvent the risks of adverse exchange rate fluctuations.
                     4. using location to lower costs or help achieve greater product differentiation or using cross-border coordination in ways a domestic-only competitor cannot.
                     5. employing a multidomestic strategy instead of a global strategy.


451. To use location to build competitive advantage, a company that operates multinationally or globally must
                     1. employ either an export strategy or a franchising strategy.
                     2. scatter its production plants across many countries in different parts of the world so as to minimize transportation costs.
                     3. consider (1) whether to concentrate each activity it performs in a few select countries or disperse performance of the activity to many nations and (2) in which countries to locate particular activities.
                     4. locate production plants in those countries having suppliers that can supply all the necessary raw materials and components so as to avoid inbound shipping costs.
                     5. concentrate all of its value chain activities in a single country—the one that has the best combination of low wage rates, low shipping costs, and low tax rates on profits.


452. To use location to build competitive advantage when competing in both domestic and foreign markets, a company must
                     1. scatter its production plants across many different country markets so as to minimize the costs of shipping to its own distribution centers and/or wholesalers/retail dealers.
                     2. consider (1) whether to concentrate each activity it performs in a few select countries or to disperse performance of the activity to many nations and (2) in which countries to locate particular activities.
                     3. concentrate buyer-related activities in a few well-chosen locations so as to maximize the capture of distribution-related scale economies.
                     4. disperse both production and distribution activities across many nations in order to hedge against fluctuating exchange rates and lessen the risks of adverse political developments.
                     5. avoid selling in countries where there are high trade barriers or where buyers purchase in small quantities.


453. In competing in foreign markets, companies find it advantageous to concentrate their activities in a limited number of locations in all of these situations, except when
                     1. there is a steep learning or experience curve associated with performing an activity in a single location (thus making it economical to serve the whole world market from just one or maybe a few locations).
                     2. the costs of manufacturing or other activities are significantly lower in some geographic locations than in others.
                     3. certain locations have superior resources, allow better coordination of related activities, or offer other valuable advantages.
                     4. there are significant scale economies in performing an activity.
                     5. the addition of new production capacity will not adversely impact the supply-demand balance in the local market.


454. In which of the following circumstances is it disadvantageous for a multinational competitor to concentrate its activities in a limited number of locations in order to build competitive advantage?
                     1. when the costs of performing certain value chain activities are significantly lower in certain geographic locations than in others
                     2. when a company has competitively superior patented technology that it can license to foreign partners
                     3. when there is a steep learning or experience curve associated with performing an activity in a single location
                     4. when certain locations have superior resources, allow better coordination of related activities, or offer other valuable advantages
                     5. when there are significant scale economies in performing the activity


455. Dispersing the performance of value chain activities to many different countries rather than concentrating them in a few country locations tends to be advantageous in all of the following situations, except
                     1. when high transportation costs make it expensive to operate from central locations.
                     2. if resources retain their foreign contexts so there is competitive advantage over a broader domain.
                     3. when it is desirable to hedge against (1) the risks of fluctuating exchange rates, (2) supply interruptions or (3) adverse political developments.
                     4. if diseconomies of large size exist, thereby making it more economical to perform an activity on a smaller scale in several different locations.
                     5. whenever buyer-related activities are best performed in locations close to buyers.


456. Which of the following is an example of a modification in a particular company’s business model to accommodate the unique local circumstances of developing countries?
                     1. Japan is known for its competitive strength in consumer electronics.
                     2. Home Depot could rely on its value propositions only in some developing countries.
                     3. Mahindra and Mahindra ranked number one in J.D. Power Asia Pacific’s new-vehicle overall quality category.
                     4. Unilever developed a low-cost detergent, named Wheel, for the Indian market.
                     5. In China, Dell moved from its traditional Internet-based orders to orders over phone and fax.


457. Whirlpool’s efforts to link its product R&D and manufacturing operations in North America, Latin America, Europe, and Asia allowed it to
                     1. use acquisition and rapid-growth strategies to better defend against expansion-minded international media companies.
                     2. take advantage of aspects of the local workforce with which large international media companies may be unfamiliar.
                     3. utilize keen understanding of local customer needs and preferences to create customized products or services.
                     4. develop business models that exploit shortcomings in local R7D networks and manufacturing infrastructure.
                     5. achieve operational excellence via discovery of innovative appliance features, coordinated integration of these features in the appliance products marketed in different countries and creation of a cost-efficient worldwide supply chain.


458. Whirlpool’s capability to shift its production from country to country to take advantage of exchange rate fluctuations, energy costs, wage rates, or changes in tariffs is an example of
                     1. a strategy involving the formation of international strategic alliances.
                     2. cross-market subsidization.
                     3. cross-border coordination.
                     4. employing an emerging market strategy that is modeled after that used in developed countries where business risks are lower.
                     5. exploiting cross-market differences in cultural, demographic, and market conditions.


459. Adidas located its first robotic “speedfactory” in Germany to accomplish which objective?
                     1. to build a state-of-the-art facility in order to fully capture scale economies via an export strategy
                     2. to use export, licensing, or franchising strategies so as to minimize risk and capital investment
                     3. to locate buyer-related activities in all countries where it sells its product
                     4. to disperse its primary activities among various countries in a manner that lowered costs or helped to achieve greater product differentiation in foreign markets
                     5. to benefit from Germany’s superior technological resources and allow greater oversight from company headquarters, also located in Germany


460. Airbus established a major assembly site for its commercial aircraft in Alabama in order to
                     1. take advantage of significant scale economies associated with assembling commercial aircraft.
                     2. hedge against the risks of fluctuating exchange rates and adverse political developments.
                     3. allow better coordination of related activities associated with assembling commercial aircraft.
                     4. benefit from a steep learning curve associated with assembling commercial aircraft.
                     5. use export, licensing, or franchising strategies so as to minimize risk and capital investment in its European operations.


461. Which of the following is not a typical option that companies have to consider in order to tailor their strategy to fit the circumstances of emerging country markets?
                     1. Prepare to compete on the basis of low price.
                     2. Be prepared to modify aspects of the company’s business model to accommodate local circumstances (but not so much that the company loses the advantage of global scale and global branding).
                     3. Try to change the local market to better match the way the company does business elsewhere.
                     4. Develop a strategy for the short-term and forget about a long-term strategy because conditions in emerging country markets change so rapidly.
                     5. Stay away from those emerging markets where it is impractical or uneconomic to modify the company’s business model to accommodate local circumstances.


462. Which of the following is not a typical option that companies have to consider in order to tailor their strategy to fit the circumstances of emerging country markets?
                     1. Try to change the local market to better match the way the company does business elsewhere.
                     2. Stay away from those emerging markets where it is impractical or uneconomic to modify the company’s business model to accommodate local circumstances.
                     3. Change the local market to better match the way the company does business elsewhere.
                     4. Modify aspects of the company’s business model to accommodate local circumstances (but not so much that the company loses the advantage of global scale and global branding).
                     5. Develop a strategy for the short-term and forget about a long-term strategy because conditions in emerging country markets change so rapidly.


463. Leyla and Sofia have been assigned a capstone strategy project to identify approaches to defend against the entry of multinational companies into Vietnam, considered an emerging market. What are two such strategic approaches?
                     1. Deploy (1) acquisition and (2) rapid-growth strategies to better defend against expansion-minded internationals.
                     2. Attempt to (1) change the local market to better match the way the company does business elsewhere and (2) reassign managers and staff from other nations to “glocalize” the business.
                     3. Be prepared to (1) modify aspects of the company’s business model and (2) use global branding to overcome local rivals.
                     4. Take concrete steps to (1) concentrate each activity your company performs in each emerging market, and (2) locate specific activities in only those emerging markets that are low-wage countries.
                     5. Pursue (1) new actions to contend on a domestic level and (2) rely solely on joint ventures with domestic businesses.


464. Companies that aspire to global market leadership need to prioritize competing in the markets where
                     1. high barriers to entry and government regulations protect incumbent firms.
                     2. they can employ a strategy akin to that used in the markets of developed countries.
                     3. they can employ a strategy akin to that used in the markets of developed countries where business risks are lowest.
                     4. economies are advanced and living standards are highest.
                     5. economies are developing and living standards are climbing toward levels in the advanced industrialized world.


465. Diversification into new industries deserves strong consideration when
                     1. a multibusiness company encounters enhanced market opportunities and increasing sales in its principal business.
                     2. a single-business company needs to develop a multiline strategy.
                     3. a single-business company needs to develop a corporate-wide strategy.
                     4. a single-business company can achieve profitable growth opportunities in its present industry.
                     5. a single-business company encounters diminishing market opportunities and stagnating sales in its principal business.


466. If a single-business company can achieve profitable growth opportunities in its present industry,
                     1. there is no urgency to pursue diversification.
                     2. its industry can be said to be competitively unattractive.
                     3. diversifying into new industries always merits strong consideration.
                     4. it will eventually encounter diminishing market opportunities and stagnating sales in its principal business.
                     5. Any diversification effort will decrease shareholder value.


467. Imagine you are the CEO of a regional ridesharing company that is considering diversification into grocery and meal delivery services. How would you determine whether or not your diversification strategy would be successful?
                     1. Diversification would result in increased ease of entry into new market locations.
                     2. Diversification would result in enhanced shareholder value.
                     3. Diversification would result in enhanced industry attractiveness.
                     4. Diversification would result in increased performance of the existing business.
                     5. Diversification would result in increased switching costs for customers.


468. Diversification merits strong consideration whenever a single-business company
                     1. has integrated backward and forward as far as it can.
                     2. faces diminishing market opportunities and stagnating sales in its principal business.
                     3. has achieved industry leadership in its main line of business.
                     4. encounters declining profits in its mainstay business.
                     5. faces strong competition and is struggling to earn a good profit.


469. Diversification ought to be considered when a
                     1. company’s profits are being squeezed, and it needs to increase its net profit margins and return on investment.
                     2. company lacks sustainable competitive advantage in its present business.
                     3. company begins to encounter diminishing growth prospects in its mainstay business.
                     4. company has run out of ways to achieve a distinctive competence in its present business.
                     5. company is under the gun to create a more attractive and cost-efficient value chain.


470. Diversifying into new businesses can be considered a success only if it
                     1. results in increased profit margins and bigger total profits.
                     2. builds shareholder value.
                     3. helps a company escape the rigors of competition in its present business.
                     4. leads to the development of a greater variety of distinctive competencies and competitive capabilities.
                     5. helps the company overcome the barriers to entering additional foreign markets.


471. To create value for shareholders via diversification, a company must
                     1. get into new businesses that are profitable.
                     2. diversify into industries that are growing rapidly.
                     3. spread its business risk across various industries by only acquiring firms that are strong competitors in their respective industries.
                     4. diversify into businesses that can perform better under a single corporate umbrella than they could perform operating as independent, stand-alone businesses.
                     5. diversify into businesses that have either key success factors or value chains that are similar to its present businesses.


472. The task of crafting a company’s overall corporate strategy for a diversified company encompasses all of the following except
                     1. establishing investment priorities and steering corporate resources into the most attractive business units.
                     2. pursuing opportunities to leverage cross-business value chain relationships and strategic fit into competitive advantage.
                     3. initiating actions to boost the combined performance of the corporation’s collection of businesses.
                     4. divesting well-performing businesses.
                     5. picking the new industries to enter and deciding on the means of entry.


473. When pharmacy chain, CVS Health, announced a $69 billion merger with health insurance giant Aetna late in 2017, top management of CVS needed to weigh a number of strategic considerations except
                     1. CVS’s opportunities to pursue debt reduction to lower its debt/equity ratio while maintaining asset levels.
                     2. CVS’s opportunities to initiate profit improvements or turnaround strategies for weak-performing businesses showing potential.
                     3. CVS’s opportunities to divest other unattractive businesses.
                     4. CVS’s opportunities to pursue rapid growth strategies in its most promising businesses.
                     5. CVS’s opportunities to pursue divestiture of businesses that did not fit into the company’s longer-term plans.


474. To test whether a particular diversification move has good prospects for creating added shareholder value, corporate strategists should use the
                     1. profit test, the competitive strength test, and the industry attractiveness test.
                     2. better-off test, the competitive advantage test, and the profit expectations test.
                     3. barrier to entry test, the competitive advantage test, and the stock price effect test.
                     4. strategic-fit test, the industry attractiveness test, and the dividend effect test.
                     5. the industry attractiveness test, the cost-of-entry test, and the better-off test.


475. The attractiveness test for evaluating whether diversification into a particular industry is likely to build shareholder value involves determining whether
                     1. conditions in the target industry allow for profits and return on investment that is equal to or better than that of the company’s present business(es).
                     2. the potential diversification move will boost the company’s competitive advantage in its existing business.
                     3. shareholders will view the contemplated diversification move as attractive.
                     4. key success factors in the target industry are attractive.
                     5. there are attractive strategic fits between the value chains of the company’s present businesses and the value chain of the new business it is considering entering.


476. The cost-of-entry test for evaluating whether diversification into a particular industry is likely to build shareholder value involves determining whether
                     1. a newly entered business presents opportunities to cost-efficiently transfer competitively valuable skills or technology from one business to another.
                     2. the cost to enter the target industry will strain the company’s credit rating.
                     3. a company’s costs to enter the target industry are so high that the potentials for good profitability and return on investment are eroded.
                     4. the cost to enter the target industry will raise or lower the company’s total profits.
                     5. the cost a company incurs to enter the target industry will raise or lower production costs.


477. The better-off test for evaluating whether a particular diversification move is likely to generate added value for shareholders involves assessing whether the diversification move
                     1. will make the company better off because it will produce a greater number of core competencies.
                     2. will make the company better off by improving its balance sheet strength and credit rating.
                     3. will make the company better off by spreading shareholder risks across a greater number of businesses and industries.
                     4. offers potential for the company’s existing businesses and new businesses to perform better together under a single corporate umbrella.
                     5. will benefit shareholders due to gains in earnings per share and faster stock price appreciation.


478. Anna and Martha are owners and managers of A&M, a limited liability corporation (LLC) that provides a wide array of services: mailing, notary services, packaging and pickup for UPS and FedEx, as well as faxing and document scanning. Anna and Martha have asked you, as their consultant, to consider whether or not they might want to diversify into financial planning due to the increasing number of retirees moving into their community. How would you advise Anna and Martha to proceed?
                     1. A&M needs to develop a corporate-wide strategy.
                     2. A&M needs to develop a multiline strategy.
                     3. A&M needs to consider diversification opportunities into financial planning if the company has encountered diminishing market opportunities and stagnating sales in its principal business.
                     4. A&M needs to remain on course, but only if this single-business company can achieve profitable growth opportunities in its present industry.
                     5. A&M needs to remain on course, but only if it can generate enhanced market opportunities and increasing sales in its principal business.


479. Acquisition is an attractive approach for companies seeking diversification into another industry because
                     1. it is quicker than trying to launch a brand-new operation, offers an effective way to hurdle entry barriers, and allows the acquirer to move directly to the task of building a strong position in the target industry.
                     2. it is not time-consuming and allows the firm to realize great profits in the end.
                     3. it is less expensive, less risky, and more effective than launching a new startup operation.
                     4. due diligence and integration can be done easily and at low cost.
                     5. it satisfies all three diversity tests (industry attractiveness test, cost-of-entry test, better-off test) to grow shareholder value over the long term.


480. Imagine that you are the general manager of a regional HR staffing company. What strategic consideration would be least likely to influence your decision to diversify your firm into new, related or unrelated business services?
                     1. selecting among new industries to enter and deciding on the means of entry
                     2. assessing and settling on the appropriate value chain for each business the company has entered
                     3. leveraging cross-business value chain relationships and strategic fit to achieve a competitive advantage
                     4. establishing investment priorities and steering corporate resources into the most attractive business units
                     5. taking actions to boost the combined performance of any new lines of business the firm has entered


481. Diversifying into a new industry by forming a new internal subsidiary to enter and compete in the target industry is attractive when
                     1. all of the potential acquisition candidates are losing money.
                     2. it is impractical to outsource most of the value chain activities that have to be performed in the target business/industry.
                     3. there is ample time to launch the new business from the ground up.
                     4. the company has built up a hoard of cash with which to finance a diversification effort.
                     5. none of the companies already in the industry is an attractive strategic alliance partner.


482. A joint venture is an attractive way for a company to enter a new industry when
                     1. the firm is missing some essential skills or capabilities or resources and needs a partner to supply the missing expertise and competencies or fill the resource gaps.
                     2. the firm needs access to economies of scope and good financial fits in order to be cost-competitive.
                     3. it is uneconomical for the firm to achieve economies of scope on its own initiative.
                     4. the firm has no prior experience with diversification.
                     5. the firm has not built up a hoard of cash with which to finance a diversification effort.


483. The $62.6 billion merger between Kraft and Heinz that was finalized in 2015
                     1. was a merger predicated on the idea that the strategic fit between these two companies was such that they could create more value as a combined enterprise than they could as two separate companies.
                     2. guaranteed that Kraft Heinz would be able to exploit its cross-business value chain activities and resource similarities immediately to more efficiently introduce innovative products, produce, distribute, and sell profitable processed food products.
                     3. was less expensive for Kraft than launching a new startup operation, thus passing the cost-of-entry test.
                     4. was more likely to result in Kraft’s passing the shareholder value test, the profitability test, and the better-off test.
                     5. offered Kraft the prospect of gaining an immediate competitive advantage in the new industry and thus helped ensure that the diversification move could pass the competitive advantage test for building shareholder value.


484. A joint venture is an attractive way for a company to enter a new industry when the
                     1. pool of attractive acquisition candidates in the target industry is relatively small.
                     2. firm needs better access to economies of scope in order to be cost-competitive.
                     3. industry is growing slowly and adding too much capacity too soon could create oversupply conditions.
                     4. firm has no prior experience with diversification and the industry is on the verge of explosive growth.
                     5. opportunity is too risky or complex for the company to pursue alone or when the company lacks some important resources or competencies and needs a partner to supply them.


485. The greatest dilemma that an acquisition-minded firm faces is whether to
                     1. focus on acquiring technical know-how or outsourcing production.
                     2. strive for scale economies or to acquire technical know-how to customize production.
                     3. focus on building brand awareness or striving for scale economies.
                     4. focus on building brand awareness or establishing supplier relationships.
                     5. pay a premium price for a successful company or buy a struggling company at a bargain price.


486. The essential requirement for different businesses to be “related” is that
                     1. their value chains possess competitively valuable cross-business relationships.
                     2. the products of the different businesses are bought by much the same types of buyers.
                     3. the products of the different businesses are sold in the same types of retail stores.
                     4. the businesses have several key suppliers in common.
                     5. the production methods that they employ both entail economies of scale.


487. Strategic fit along the value chains of related businesses can result in cost reductions due to
                     1. related diversification.
                     2. unrelated diversification.
                     3. economies of strategic planning.
                     4. economies of scale.
                     5. cross-business resource sharing.


488. Which of the following is an important appeal of a related diversification strategy?
                     1. It represents an effective way of capturing valuable financial fit benefits.
                     2. It offers opportunities to transfer skills, expertise, technical know-how, or other capabilities from one business to another.
                     3. It offers significant opportunities to strongly differentiate a company’s product offerings from those of rivals.
                     4. It is more likely to pass the cost-of-entry test and the capital gains test than unrelated diversification.
                     5. It is typically more profitable than unrelated diversification, which is a major factor in helping related diversification pass the attractiveness test.


489. Tanisha is CEO of a multinational corporate event planning firm. What would make it unappealing to her to consider diversification into a new industry, such as lodging, by forming an internal startup subsidiary to enter and compete in that target industry?
                     1. when the corporate event planning industry is growing rapidly and the target lodging industry is comprised of several relatively large and well-established firms
                     2. when her company possesses the skills and resources to overcome entry barriers and there is ample time to launch the business and compete effectively
                     3. when adding new lodging capacity will not adversely impact the supply/demand balance in the industry by creating oversupply conditions
                     4. when internal entry is cheaper than entry via acquisition
                     5. when incumbent firms are likely to be slow or ineffective in combating a new entrant’s efforts to crack the market


490. Opportunities for cross-business strategic fit exist
                     1. in R&D and technology activities only.
                     2. in supply chain activities only.
                     3. in sales and marketing activities only.
                     4. in production and distribution activities only.
                     5. anywhere along the respective value chains of related businesses; no one place is best.


491. Cross-business strategic fits are unlikely to be derived from
                     1. transferring competitively valuable resources, expertise, technological know-how, or other capabilities from one business to another.
                     2. cost sharing between separate businesses whose activities can be combined.
                     3. brand sharing between business units that have common customers or that draw upon common core competencies.
                     4. sharing common administrative and customer service infrastructure.
                     5. activities along the value chain that cannot be shared by different businesses.


492. Economies of scope
                     1. are cost reductions that flow from cost-saving strategic fits along the value chains of related businesses in the business lineup of a multibusiness corporation.
                     2. arise only from strategic-fit relationships in the production portions of the value chains of sister businesses.
                     3. are more associated with unrelated diversification than related diversification.
                     4. are present whenever diversification satisfies the attractiveness test and the cost-of-entry test.
                     5. arise mainly from strategic-fit relationships in the distribution portions of the value chains of unrelated businesses.


493. Economies of scope differ from economies of scale in that
                     1. scope stems directly from strategic fit along the value chains of related businesses, while scale refers to cost savings that accrue directly from larger-sized operations.
                     2. scope refers to strategic fits to be gained outside the value chain, while scale refers to the impact of the value chain on operations.
                     3. scope refers to the reach of defined savings within the value chain, while scale refers to the magnitude or size of the operation itself.
                     4. scope refers to the possibilities of change, while scale refers to the extent and direction of change.
                     5. they mean the same thing and the only difference is the extent of cost savings accrued from unrelated businesses in each.


494. What makes related diversification an attractive strategy is the
                     1. ability to meet the “what’s in it for us?” test.
                     2. potential to stabilize the company’s financial performance.
                     3. opportunity to convert the competitive advantage potential into 1 + 1 = 3 gains in shareholder value.
                     4. potential to escape the power of buyers and suppliers.
                     5. potential to more easily hurdle the barriers to entering foreign markets.


495. Diversification seldom results in added long-term value for shareholders unless
                     1. it can propel the company’s business forward and help it gain ground over its market rivals.
                     2. this strategy is less capital intensive and usually less risky than unrelated diversification.
                     3. it offers potential 1 + 1 = 3 or “synergy” benefits because of valuable cross-business relationships among the value chains of the corporation’s different businesses.
                     4. leads to competitive advantage and increased profitability.
                     5. passes not only the industry attractiveness test but also offers the best route to 2 + 2 = 4 benefits.


496. Procter & Gamble’s acquisition of Gillette was integral to a corporate diversification strategy for building the company around businesses
                     1. with strategic fit in respect to key value chain activities and competitive assets.
                     2. that are highly independent, proficient, and efficient operating firms.
                     3. with strategic fit across separate value chain activities that drive each business.
                     4. that can also include unrelated businesses with dissimilar resource requirements.
                     5. that have dissimilar value chain activities with no cross-business commonalities.


497. The essential requirement for different businesses to be “related” is that
                     1. their value chains possess competitively valuable cross-business fit relationships.
                     2. the products of the different businesses are bought by much the same types of buyers.
                     3. the products of the different businesses are sold in the same types of retail stores.
                     4. the businesses have several key suppliers in common.
                     5. the production methods that they employ both entail economies of scale.


498. A strategy of diversifying into unrelated businesses
                     1. is aimed at achieving good financial fit (whereas related diversification aims at good strategic fit).
                     2. is the best way for a company to pass the attractiveness test in choosing which types of businesses/industries to enter.
                     3. discounts the importance of strategic fit and instead focuses on building and managing a group of businesses in attractive industries that can acquired on financial terms that allow for acceptable returns on investment.
                     4. concentrates on diversifying into businesses where a company can leverage use of a well-known brand name in ways that create added value for shareholders.
                     5. generally offers more competitive advantage potential than related diversification.


499. An acquisition of an unrelated business is deemed to have potential if it
                     1. is aimed at achieving good financial fit (whereas related diversification aims at good strategic fit).
                     2. can achieve at least existing profit margins into the near future.
                     3. passes the competitive fit, financial fit, strategic relatedness, and value chain maximization tests.
                     4. has the opportunity to generate positive buzz in the industry, even if it may not be able to contribute to the parent firm’s bottom line.
                     5. can pass the industry attractiveness and cost-of-entry test, and if it has good prospects for profit growth.


500. Different businesses are said to be “unrelated” when
                     1. they are in different industries.
                     2. the products of the different businesses are not bought by the same types of buyers or sold in the same types of retail stores.
                     3. the products of the different businesses satisfy different buyer needs.
                     4. the businesses have different supply chains and different types of suppliers.
                     5. there is an absence of competitively valuable strategic fits between their respective value chains.


501. The basic premise of unrelated diversification is that
                     1. the least risky way to diversify is to seek out businesses that are leaders in their respective industry.
                     2. the best companies to acquire are those that offer the greatest economies of scope rather than the greatest economies of scale.
                     3. the best way to build shareholder value is to acquire businesses with strong cross-business financial fit.
                     4. any company that can be acquired on good financial terms and has satisfactory growth and earnings potential represents a good acquisition and a good business opportunity.
                     5. the task of building shareholder value is better served by seeking to stabilize earnings across the entire business cycle than by seeking to capture cross-business strategic fits.


502. The types of companies that make particularly attractive acquisition targets when employing an unrelated diversification strategy are
                     1. cash cow businesses that provide excellent financial fit.
                     2. companies that are market leaders in their respective industries.
                     3. financially distressed companies with good turnaround potential, undervalued companies that can be acquired at a bargain price, and companies that have bright growth prospects but are short on investment capital.
                     4. companies that offer the greatest potential to reduce labor costs.
                     5. companies that employ the same basic type of competitive strategy as the parent corporation’s existing businesses.


503. One of the suggested advantages of an unrelated diversification strategy is that it
                     1. expands a firm’s competitive advantage opportunities to include a wider array of businesses.
                     2. spreads the stockholders’ risks across a group of truly diverse businesses.
                     3. increases strategic-fit opportunities and the potential for a 1 + 1 = 3 outcome on the bottom line.
                     4. results in having more cash cow businesses than cash-hog businesses.
                     5. facilitates capturing the financial fits among sister businesses (as compared to a strategy of related diversification).


504. A sound justification for unrelated diversification is that doing so
                     1. can result in risk reduction by spreading a company’s investments over a set of diverse industries.
                     2. can meet expectations for rapid or continuous growth.
                     3. can stabilize earnings, that is, market downtrends, in some of the company’s businesses that will be partially offset by cyclical upswings in its other businesses.
                     4. can support managerial motives including the prospects for higher compensation.
                     5. can deliver enhanced shareholder value if an undervalued company can be purchased at a bargain price.


505. The success of unrelated diversification is contingent upon management’s ability to
                     1. acquire new businesses that utilize much the same technology as existing businesses.
                     2. divest businesses whose competitive strategies do not match the overall competitive strategy of the corporation.
                     3. acquire new businesses having attractive distribution-related and customer-related strategic fits with existing businesses.
                     4. identify bargain-priced companies with big upside potential and then turn around their operations quickly with the aid of the parent company’s financial resources and managerial know-how.
                     5. identify potential new acquisition candidates that are cash cows (as opposed to cash hogs).


506. Corporate parenting refers to all of the following except
                     1. efforts to capitalize on the umbrella brands and enhance value proposition across businesses.
                     2. the corporation’s ability to provide generalized support resources so as to create value by lowering companywide overhead costs by eliminating duplication of efforts.
                     3. the oversight that subsidiaries receive in performing better when they utilize astute high-level guidance from corporate executives.
                     4. efforts to judiciously segregate funds for each business in such a way that keeps the money safe and discourages shifting funds across business units.
                     5. the role that a diversified corporation plays in nurturing its component businesses through the provision of top management expertise, disciplined control, financial resources, and capabilities.


507. The two biggest drawbacks or disadvantages of unrelated diversification are
                     1. the difficulties of passing the cost-of-entry test and the ease with which top managers can make the mistake of diversifying into businesses where competition is too intense.
                     2. the difficulties of capturing financial fit and having insufficient financial resources to spread business risk across many different lines of business.
                     3. demanding managerial requirements and the limited competitive advantage potential that cross-business strategic fit provides.
                     4. ending up with too many cash-hog businesses and too much diversity among the competitive strategies of the businesses the company has diversified into.
                     5. the difficulties of achieving economies of scope and conflicts/incompatibility among the competitive strategies of the company’s different businesses.


508. The two biggest drawbacks or disadvantages of unrelated diversification are
                     1. underemphasizing the importance of resource fit and the strong likelihood of diversifying into businesses that top management does not know all that much about.
                     2. insufficient cash flows to finance so many different lines of business and a lack of uniformity among the strategies of the businesses the company has diversified into.
                     3. volatile sales and profits and making the mistake of diversifying into too many cash cow businesses.
                     4. the difficulties of competently managing a set of fundamentally different businesses and having a very limited competitive advantage potential that cross-business strategic fit provides.
                     5. overinvesting in the achievement of economies of scope and the difficulties of achieving a good mix of cash cow and cash-hog businesses.


509. The one factor that company executives need not worry about when their company is managing many diverse, unrelated firms is
                     1. staying abreast of what’s happening in each industry and subsidiary.
                     2. picking business-unit heads who have the requisite combination of managerial skills and know-how to motivate people.
                     3. understanding the true value of strategic investment proposals by business-unit managers.
                     4. knowing what to do if a business unit stumbles.
                     5. “managing by the numbers“—that is, keeping a close track on the financial and operating results of each subsidiary.


510. A diversified company has a parenting advantage when it
                     1. is more able than other companies to create positive collaboration within its portfolio for different specialty groups and geographic locations.
                     2. is more able than other companies to boost the combined performance of its individual businesses through its high-level guidance, general oversight, and other corporate-level contributions.
                     3. manages a set of fundamentally similar business operations inside fundamentally similar industries and environments.
                     4. avoids acquiring undervalued companies and thus reduces risks.
                     5. results in supporting short-term economic shareholder value.


511. Which of the following rationales for pursuing unrelated diversification is likely to increase shareholder value?
                     1. to enable a company to achieve rapid or continuous growth
                     2. to reduce risk by way of spreading the company’s investments over a set of truly diverse industries
                     3. to stabilize earnings; that is, market downtrends in some of the company’s businesses will be partially offset by cyclical upswings in its other businesses
                     4. to provide benefits to managers such as high compensation and reduction in employment risk
                     5. to restructure an underperforming business


512. Kjirstin is the general manager of Labcon USA, a diversified laboratory equipment design and manufacturing business with one major “core” business that accounts for 60 percent of the company’s total worldwide revenues and the remainder, a collection of small related or unrelated businesses. She would define Labcon USA as a
                     1. corporate parent enterprise.
                     2. narrowly diversified enterprise.
                     3. multibusiness enterprise.
                     4. high-compensation/low-risk enterprise.
                     5. dominant-business enterprise.


513. Unrelated diversification makes sense only when doing so
                     1. results in risk reduction by spreading a company’s investments over a set of diverse industries.
                     2. meets expectations for rapid or continuous growth.
                     3. stabilizes earnings, i.e., market downtrends in some of the company’s businesses will be partially offset by cyclical upswings in its other businesses.
                     4. supports managerial motives including the prospects for higher compensation.
                     5. delivers enhanced shareholder value if an undervalued company can be purchased at a bargain price.


514. The procedure for evaluating the pluses and minuses of a diversified company’s strategy includes
                     1. assessing the utility of the products for consumers from all age-groups.
                     2. determining which business units are cash cows and which ones are cash hogs, and then evaluating how soon the company’s cash hogs can be transformed into cash cows.
                     3. firing corporate managers who take on risks without performing due diligence.
                     4. evaluating the extent of cross-business strategic fits and checking whether the firm’s resources fit the needs of the various businesses the company has diversified into.
                     5. measuring the frequency with which strategic alliances and collaborative partnerships are used in each industry, and the extent to which firms in the industry utilize outsourcing.


515. Which of the following is not a major consideration in evaluating the pluses and minuses of a diversified company’s strategy?
                     1. checking whether the company’s resources fit the requirements of its present business lineup
                     2. scrutinizing each industry/business to determine where driving forces are strongest/weakest and how many profitable strategic groups the company has diversified into
                     3. ranking the performance prospects of the various businesses from best to worst and determining what the corporate parent’s priorities should be in allocating resources to its different businesses
                     4. evaluating the extent of cross-business strategic fits
                     5. assessing the competitive strength of each business the company has diversified into


516. A comprehensive evaluation of the group of businesses a company has diversified into involves
                     1. rating the attractiveness of each industry’s strategic and resource fits, summing the attractiveness scores, and determining whether the overall scores for the industries as a group are appealing or not.
                     2. identifying each industry’s average profitability, rating the difficulty of achieving average profitability in each industry, and deciding whether the company’s prospects for above-average profitability are attractive or unattractive, industry by industry.
                     3. determining each industry’s competitive advantage factors, calculating the ability of the company to be successful on each competitive advantage factor, and obtaining overall measures of the firm’s ability to achieve sustainable competitive advantage in each of its industries based on the combined competitive advantage factor ratings.
                     4. determining each industry’s key success factors (KSF), calculating the ability of the company to be successful on each industry KSF, and obtaining overall measures of the firm’s ability to compete successfully in each of its industries based on the combined KSF ratings.
                     5. selecting a set of industry attractiveness measures, weighting the importance of each measure, rating each industry on each attractiveness measure, multiplying the industry ratings by the assigned weight to obtain a weighted rating, adding the weighted ratings for each industry to obtain an overall industry attractiveness score, and using the overall industry attractiveness scores to interpret the attractiveness of all the industries, both individually and as a group.


517. Calculating quantitative industry attractiveness scores for each industry a company has diversified into
                     1. permits a ranking of the attractiveness of the various industry value chains, from best to worst.
                     2. provides a basis for drawing analysis-based conclusions about the attractiveness of the industries a company has diversified into, both individually and as a group, and further to provide an indication of which industries offer the best and worst long-term prospects.
                     3. helps ascertain which industries have the easiest-to-achieve key success factors and strategic fits.
                     4. ignores seasonal and cyclical factors, industry profitability, and whether an industry has significant social, political, regulatory, and environmental problems.
                     5. enables managers to get in position to rank the industries from most competitive to least competitive.


518. On June 26, 2018, CEO John Flannery of General Electric Company (GE) announced that the company planned to spin off its healthcare business and divest its stake in oil services firm Baker Hughes. The slimmed-down company would refocus on jet engines, power plants, and renewable energy. What would you consider not to be an important consideration for CEO Flannery when he evaluated the merits of this diversified company’s new strategy?
                     1. analyzing the strategic fits and resource fits among the various sister businesses
                     2. assessing the competitive strength of each business GE had previously diversified into
                     3. determining which business units were cash cows and which ones were cash hogs, and then evaluating how soon GE’s cash hogs could be transformed into cash cows
                     4. ranking the performance prospects of the current portfolio of GE businesses from best to worst and deciding what priority to give each of the company’s business units in allocating resources
                     5. assessing the attractiveness of the industries GE had previously diversified into, both individually and as a group


519. When industry attractiveness ratings are calculated for each of the industries a multibusiness company has diversified into, the results help indicate
                     1. which industries appear to be the most and least attractive from the standpoint of the company’s long-term performance.
                     2. which industries have attractive key success factors and which have unattractive key success factors.
                     3. which industries have the biggest economies of scale and which have the greatest economies of scope and the overall potential for cost reduction in the industries as a group.
                     4. which industries are most attractive from the standpoint of long-term growth and the growth prospects of all the industries as a group.
                     5. which industries are most attractive from the standpoint of industry driving forces and competitive forces.


520. When calculating industry attractiveness scores, to produce a valid response it is necessary to
                     1. master the ability to hurdle barriers to entry, value chain attractiveness, and business risk.
                     2. calculate the cost reduction potential, customer satisfaction potential, and comparisons of annual cash flows from operations.
                     3. enumerate the relative number of competitive capabilities, the number of products in each business’s product line, which businesses have the highest/lowest market shares, and which businesses earn the highest/lowest profits before taxes.
                     4. employ outside analysts to make an educated guess if the available information is skimpy.
                     5. ensure the appropriate weights are assigned to each measure and that the preparer has sufficient knowledge to rate the industry on each attractiveness measure.


521. Assessments of how a diversified company’s subsidiaries compare in competitive strength should be based on such factors as
                     1. vulnerability to seasonal and cyclical downturns, vulnerability to driving forces, and vulnerability to fluctuating interest rates and exchange rates.
                     2. relative market share, ability to match or beat rivals on key product attributes, brand image and reputation, costs relative to competitors, and ability to benefit from strategic fits with sister businesses.
                     3. the appeal of its strategy, relative number of competitive capabilities, the number of products in each businesses product line, which businesses have the highest/lowest market shares, and which businesses earn the highest/lowest profits before taxes.
                     4. the ability to hurdle barriers to entry, value chain attractiveness, and business risk.
                     5. cost reduction potential, customer satisfaction potential, and comparisons of annual cash flows from operations.


522. The value of determining the relative competitive strength of each business a company has diversified into is to
                     1. have a quantitative basis for identifying which businesses have large/small competitive advantages or competitive disadvantages vis-à-vis the rivals in their respective industries.
                     2. have a quantitative basis for rating them from strongest to weakest in terms of contributing to the corporate parent’s revenue growth.
                     3. compare resource strengths and weaknesses, business by business.
                     4. have a quantitative basis for rating them from strongest to weakest in contending for market leadership in their respective industries.
                     5. have a quantitative basis for rating them from strongest to weakest in terms of contributing to the corporate parent’s profitability.


523. The basic purpose of calculating competitive strength scores for each of a diversified company’s business units is to
                     1. rank the business unit from best to worst in terms of potential for cost reduction and profit margin improvement.
                     2. provide a quantitative measure of the overall market strength and competitive standing for each business unit.
                     3. determine which business unit has the greatest number of resource strengths, competencies, and competitive capabilities, and which one has the least.
                     4. determine which one has the biggest market share and is growing the fastest.
                     5. rank each business unit’s strategy from best to worst.


524. A competitive strength score above five indicates that a diversified company’s relative position in the market is characterized by
                     1. business units that are all fairly weak market contenders in their respective industries.
                     2. business units that are all fairly strong market contenders in their respective industries.
                     3. a competitive strength score that does not relate to the market position of the business.
                     4. signals that the company will not likely perform well against its rivals.
                     5. signals that the company will likely fail.


525. The nine-cell industry attractiveness-competitive strength matrix
                     1. is useful for helping decide which businesses should have high, average, and low priorities in allocating corporate resources.
                     2. indicates which businesses are cash hogs and which are cash cows.
                     3. pinpoints what strategies are most appropriate for businesses positioned in the three top cells of the matrix but is less clear about the best strategies for businesses positioned in the bottom six cells.
                     4. identifies which sister businesses have the greatest strategic fit.
                     5. indicates the relative size of the businesses.


526. The most important strategy-making guidance that comes from drawing a nine-cell industry attractiveness-competitive strength matrix is
                     1. which businesses in the portfolio have the most potential for strategic fit and resource fit.
                     2. why cash cow businesses are more valuable than cash-hog businesses.
                     3. that corporate resources should be concentrated on those businesses enjoying both a higher degree of industry attractiveness and competitive strength and that businesses having low competitive strength in relatively unattractive industries should be looked at for possible divestiture.
                     4. which businesses have the biggest competitive advantages and which ones confront serious competitive disadvantages.
                     5. which businesses are in industries with profitable value chains and which are in industries with money-losing value chains.


527. The nine-cell attractiveness-strength matrix provides clear, strong logic for
                     1. concentrating resources to bolster unattractive and competitively weak performers in the corporate portfolio.
                     2. measuring only business strength in allocating resources and investment capital to the different businesses.
                     3. concentrating resources in only those business units that are destined for squeezing out the maximum cash flows.
                     4. using both industry attractiveness and business strength measurements in allocating resources and investment capital to a corporation’s different businesses.
                     5. using both resource fit and product strength measurements in allocating resources and investment capital to its different businesses.


528. In a diversified company, the competitive advantage potential of cross-business strategic fit is greater when
                     1. the business lineup includes a number of cash cows.
                     2. valuable opportunities exist to transfer skills, technology, or intellectual capital from one business to another, combine the performance of related activities, or share the use of a well-respected brand name across multiple products or service categories.
                     3. the strategy maps of the various business units converge.
                     4. businesses included in the corporate portfolio compete in fast-growing industries.
                     5. competition is less intense and driving forces are relatively weak.


529. Checking a diversified firm’s business portfolio for the competitive advantage potential of cross-business strategic fits entails consideration of
                     1. whether the parent company’s competitive advantages are being deployed to maximum advantage in each of its business units.
                     2. whether the competitive strategies employed in each business act to reinforce the competitive power of the strategies employed in the company’s other businesses.
                     3. whether the competitive strategies in each business possess good strategic fit with the parent company’s corporate strategy.
                     4. the extent to which there are competitively valuable relationships between the value chains of sister business units and what opportunities they present to reduce costs, share use of a potent brand name, or transfer skills or technology or intellectual capital from one business to another.
                     5. how compatible the competitive strategies of the various sister businesses are and whether these strategies are properly aimed at achieving the same kind of competitive advantage.


530. A diversified company’s business units exhibit good resource fit when
                     1. each business is a cash cow.
                     2. a company has the resources to adequately support the requirements of its businesses as a group without spreading itself too thin and when individual businesses add to a company’s overall resource strengths.
                     3. each business is sufficiently profitable to generate an attractive return on invested capital.
                     4. each business unit produces large internal cash flows over and above what is needed to build and maintain the business.
                     5. the resource requirements of each business exactly match the resources the company has available.


531. The businesses in a diversified company’s lineup exhibit good resource fit when
                     1. the resource requirements of each of its businesses exactly match the resources the company has available.
                     2. its individual businesses add to a company’s resource strengths and when it has the resources to adequately support the requirements of its businesses as a group without spreading itself too thin.
                     3. each business unit generates just enough cash flow annually to fund its own capital requirements and thus does not require cash infusions from the corporate parent.
                     4. each business unit produces sufficient cash flows over and above what is needed to build and maintain the business, thereby providing the parent company with enough cash to pay shareholders a generous and steadily increasing dividend.
                     5. there are enough cash cow businesses to support the capital requirements of the cash-hog businesses.


532. One important dimension of resource fit concerns the potential to generate internal cash flows sufficient to fund capital requirements of its business lineup, termed the firm’s
                     1. internal capital market.
                     2. debt policy management.
                     3. liquidity management.
                     4. economic value added.
                     5. managerial cost control.


533. A cash cow type of business
                     1. generates unusually high profits and returns on equity investment.
                     2. is so profitable that it has no long-term debt.
                     3. generates positive cash flows over and above its internal requirements, thus providing a corporate parent with cash flows that can be used for financing new acquisitions, investing in cash-hog businesses, funding share buyback programs, and/or paying dividends.
                     4. is a business with such a strong competitive advantage that it generates big profits, big returns on investment, and big cash surpluses after dividends are paid.
                     5. has good strategic fit with a cash-hog business.


534. A cash-hog type of business
                     1. is one that is losing money and requires cash infusions from its corporate parent to continue operations.
                     2. generates cash flows that are too small to fully fund its operations and growth, and so must receive cash infusions from outside sources to cover working capital and investment requirements.
                     3. generates negative cash flows from internal operations and thus requires cash infusions from its corporate parent to report a profit.
                     4. is a business growing so rapidly that it does not have the funds to cover its short- and long-term debt obligations.
                     5. is one that has more current liabilities than current assets and faces a liquidity crisis due to declining sales revenues and declining profitability.


535. The difference between a cash cow business and a cash-hog business is that a cash cow business
                     1. is making money, whereas a cash-hog business is losing money.
                     2. generates enough profits to pay off long-term debt, whereas a cash-hog business does not.
                     3. generates positive retained earnings, whereas a cash-hog business produces negative retained earnings.
                     4. produces large internal cash flows over and above what is needed to build and maintain the business, whereas the internal cash flows of a cash-hog business are too small to fully fund its operating needs and capital requirements.
                     5. generates very large increases in sales revenues, whereas a cash-hog business has declining sales revenues and chronic deficiencies of working capital.


536. A diversified company’s business units exhibit good financial resource fit when
                     1. it has the resources to adequately support the requirements of its businesses as a group without spreading itself too thin and when individual businesses add to a company’s overall strengths.
                     2. cash cow businesses are sufficient to fund its needs to turn cash hogs into potential young stars.
                     3. self-supporting stars are able to plow their cash flows into funding cash cows.
                     4. each business is sufficiently profitable to generate an attractive return on invested capital.
                     5. each business unit produces large internal cash flows over and above what is needed to build and maintain the business.


537. Huawei has hired you to calculate its relative share of the global mobile phone market. How would you conduct this analysis?
                     1. by identifying Huawei’s cash cows, which have big relative market shares (above 1.0), and cash hogs, which have low relative market shares (below 0.5)
                     2. by adjusting Huawei’s revenue share up or down by a factor proportional to whether their quality/customer service factors are above/below industry averages
                     3. by dividing Huawei’s percentage share of total industry sales volume by the percentage share held by its largest rival
                     4. by dividing Huawei’s market share (based on dollar volume) by the industry-average market share
                     5. by subtracting the industry-average market share (based on revenue) from Huawei’s market share to highlight relative share above/below the industry average. This amount is a better indicator of a business’s competitive strength than is just looking at the firm’s market share percentage.


538. A diversified company’s business units exhibit good financial resource fit when
                     1. each business is a cash cow.
                     2. a company has the resources to adequately support the requirements of its businesses as a group without spreading itself too thin and when individual businesses add to a company’s overall strengths.
                     3. each business is sufficiently profitable to generate an attractive return on invested capital.
                     4. each business unit produces large internal cash flows over and above what is needed to build and maintain the business.
                     5. the resource requirements of each business exactly match the company’s available resources.


539. The tests of whether a diversified company’s businesses exhibit resource fit do not include
                     1. whether a business adequately contributes to achieving the corporate parent’s performance targets.
                     2. whether the excess cash flows generated by cash cow businesses are sufficient to cover the negative cash flows of its cash-hog businesses.
                     3. whether the corporate parent has or can develop sufficient resource strengths and competitive capabilities to be successful in each of the businesses it has diversified into.
                     4. whether the company has adequate financial strength to fund its different businesses and maintain a healthy credit rating.
                     5. whether the corporate parent has sufficient cash to fund the needs of its individual businesses and pay dividends to shareholders without having to borrow money.


540. Management’s ranking of business units and establishing a priority for resource allocation should
                     1. utilize activity-based costing and benchmarking to determine the funding needs of each business unit.
                     2. first consider the strength of funding proposals presented by managers of each division or business unit.
                     3. give priority for funding to cash-hog businesses.
                     4. put business units with the brightest profit and growth prospects and solid strategic and resource fits at the top of the investment priority list.
                     5. always make the company’s business units with strong resource strengths and competitive capabilities the central focus of funding initiatives.


541. The strategic and financial options for allocating a diversified company’s financial resources do not include
                     1. making acquisitions to establish positions in new businesses or to complement existing businesses.
                     2. investing in ways to strengthen or grow existing businesses.
                     3. funding long-range R&D ventures aimed at opening market opportunities in new or existing businesses.
                     4. allocating resources to businesses with dim or marginal prospects.
                     5. paying off existing debt, increasing dividends, building cash reserves, or repurchasing shares of the company’s stock.


542. Imagine that you are the CEO of a fishing bait-and-tackle retailer that is considering broadening the company’s scope, by building positions in new related business such as guiding fishing expeditions or unrelated businesses such as a mobile app that enables visitors to check last-minute camping and lodging availability at national and state parks. You would be ill-advised to pursue a diversification strategy at this time because
                     1. your company’s baseline growth is sluggish and you are seeking the sales and profit boost that a new business can provide.
                     2. your company’s wants to lessen its vulnerability to seasonal or recessionary influences or to threats from emerging new technologies, legislative regulations, and new product innovations that alter buyer preferences and resource requirements.
                     3. your company has resources or capabilities that are eminently transferable to other related or complementary businesses.
                     4. your company wants to make new acquisitions to strengthen or complement some of its present businesses, market positioning, and competitive capabilities.
                     5. your company is willing to make the tradeoffs between high integration costs and excessive acquisition premiums in order to increase management compensation.


543. Strategic and financial moves that could be taken to improve a diversified company’s overall performance do not include
                     1. broadening the company’s business scope by making new acquisitions in unrelated growth industries.
                     2. divesting weak-performing businesses and retrenching to a narrower base of business operations.
                     3. restructuring the company’s business lineup and putting a whole new face on the company’s business makeup.
                     4. sticking closely to the existing business lineup and pursuing the growth opportunities presented by these businesses.
                     5. selling businesses too late and at too low a price.


544. Sam Yagan, CEO of Match.com, and other related social media businesses, is considering broadening his company’s business scope, for example, by building positions in new related or unrelated mobile app businesses such as a new concept, ShopRunner, which would provide free two-day shipping and seamless checkout at leading online retailers. You would advise Mr. Yagan to pursue this diversification strategy for all of the following reasons EXCEPT?
                     1. Match.com has or can develop the specific resources and competitive capabilities needed to be successful in each of its businesses
                     2. Match.com’s other recently acquired businesses are already acting to strengthen the company’s resource base and competitive capabilities
                     3. lines of business targeted for diversification would adequately contribute to achieving Match.com’s companywide performance targets
                     4. Match.com has enough cash-hog businesses to supply capital to its cash cow businesses
                     5. Match.com possesses adequate financial strength to fund the needs of its various businesses and maintain a healthy credit rating


545. When General Electric created an independent health care division and divested it in June 2018 by distributing to GE’s stockholders new shares in the new business, the strategic action was termed
                     1. a spin-off.
                     2. a wholly-owned subsidiary.
                     3. a functional divestiture.
                     4. a satellite strategic business unit.
                     5. a radical restructure.


546. The option of sticking with the current business lineup makes sense when
                     1. the company’s present businesses offer attractive growth opportunities and can be counted on to generate good earnings and cash flows for shareholders.
                     2. companies are seeking multinational diversification.
                     3. corporate executives are excited about market opportunities.
                     4. corporate executives are satisfied with current performance of each of their businesses and can use redirect capabilities and resources for expansion opportunities.
                     5. corporate executives want to divest some businesses and retrench to a narrower diversification base.


547. Unlikely candidates for divestiture in Nike’s corporate restructuring effort are
                     1. business units that lack strategic fit with the businesses to be retained by Nike.
                     2. Nike’s weak performers.
                     3. Nike’s businesses in unattractive industries.
                     4. Nike’s businesses that are cash hogs or that lack other types of resource fit.
                     5. Nike’s businesses that are still compatible with the company’s revised diversification strategy.


548. Retrenching to a narrower diversification base
                     1. is usually the most attractive long-run strategy for a broadly diversified company confronted with recession, high interest rates, mounting competitive pressures in several of its businesses, and sluggish growth.
                     2. is directed at improving long-term performance by building stronger positions in a smaller number of core businesses.
                     3. is an attractive strategy option for revamping a diverse business lineup that lacks strong cross-business financial fit.
                     4. is sometimes an attractive option for deepening a diversified company’s technological expertise and supporting a faster rate of product innovation.
                     5. is a strategy best reserved for companies in poor financial shape.


549. Health care conglomerate Johnson & Johnson announced plans in late 2021 to split its consumer products business from its pharmaceutical and medical device operations, creating two publicly traded companies. The separation will sheer off its household products unit, maker of Band-Aid bandages, Aveeno and Neutrogena skin care products, and Listerine, from its riskier, but faster-growing division that makes and sells prescription drugs and medical devices, including its COVID-19 vaccine. A useful guide to determine whether or when to divest a business subsidiary is to ask
                     1. “Have we missed the opportunity to milk these cash cows?”
                     2. “If we were not in this business today, would we want to get into it now?”
                     3. “Can’t we derive a parenting advantage with these businesses?”
                     4. “Do we need to do the math to achieve 1 + 1 = 3 outcomes from these diversified businesses?”
                     5. “Will these three businesses pass the ‘cost-of-exit’ test?”


550. VF Corporation spun off its entire jean division and outlet store chain as an independent public company in 2019 and acquired the Supreme streetwear brand in 2020. These strategic movers are examples of
                     1. purchasing a business outright from another company.
                     2. corporate restructuring.
                     3. purchasing a business by selling shares of stock to the investing public or borrowing funds.
                     4. reinvesting in an unwanted business to make a more financially and managerially stable company.
                     5. selecting only businesses that have ample resources to compete successfully on their own for sale to another company.


551. Corporate restructuring strategies
                     1. involve making radical changes in a diversified company’s business lineup, divesting some businesses, and acquiring new ones so as to put a new face on the company’s business lineup.
                     2. entail reducing the scope of diversification to a smaller number of businesses.
                     3. entail selling off marginal businesses to free resources for redeployment to the remaining businesses.
                     4. focus on crafting initiatives to restore a diversified company’s money-losing businesses to profitability.
                     5. focus on broadening the scope of diversification to include a larger number of businesses and boost the company’s growth and profitability.


552. Barbara Rentler, CEO of Ross Stores, Inc. (parent company of Ross Dress for Less and dd’s Discount retail chains) is considering broadening her company’s business scope, by building positions in new related or unrelated businesses. Ms. Rentler would be advised to pursue a diversification strategy for all of the following reasons except
                     1. Ross has resources or capabilities that are eminently transferable to other related or complementary businesses.
                     2. Ross’s growth is sluggish and it wants the sales and profit boost that a new business can provide.
                     3. Ross’s management wants to lessen the company’s vulnerability to seasonal or recessionary influences or to threats from emerging new technologies, legislative regulations, and new product innovations that alter buyer preferences and resource requirements.
                     4. Ross wants to make new acquisitions to strengthen or complement some of its present businesses, market positioning, and competitive capabilities.
                     5. Ross’s top management wants to increase its compensation.


553. When IBM created an independent division for information technology infrastructure services that designs, builds, manages and develops large-scale information systems and divested it in November 2021 by distributing to IBM’s stockholders new shares in the new business, now known as Kyndryl Holdings, Inc., the strategic action was termed
                     1. a spin-off.
                     2. a wholly-owned subsidiary.
                     3. a functional divestiture.
                     4. a satellite business.
                     5. E). a dysfunctional divestiture.


554. An outstanding corporate parent like Berkshire Hathaway is not likely to benefit its portfolio of businesses by
                     1. providing high-level oversight and making available other corporate resources.
                     2. purchasing competitively weak businesses or businesses in unattractive industries.
                     3. restructuring underperforming acquisitions.
                     4. allocating financial resources across the business portfolio.
                     5. investing in ways to strengthen or grow existing businesses.


555. Michelle Buck, CEO of the Hershey Company has hired you as a consultant to assess her diversified company’s business units for cross-business competitive advantage potential. Your assessment would not normally involve ascertaining the extent to which Hershey’s business units
                     1. have value chain matchups that offer opportunities to combine the performance of related value chain activities and reduce costs.
                     2. have value chain matchups that offer opportunities to transfer skills or technology or intellectual capital from one business to another.
                     3. are making maximum use of the parent company’s competitive advantages.
                     4. have value chain matchups that offer opportunities to create new competitive capabilities or to leverage existing resources.
                     5. present opportunities to share use of a well-respected brand name.


556. Having recently terminated his bid to acquire Twitter, Elon Musk has hired you to calculate Samsung’s relative share of the global mobile phone market. How would you conduct this analysis?
                     1. by dividing Samsung’s percentage share of total industry sales volume by the percentage share held by its largest rival
                     2. by adjusting Samsung’s revenue share up or down by a factor proportional to whether their quality/customer service factors are above/below industry averages
                     3. by dividing Samsung’s market share (based on dollar volume) by the industry-average market share
                     4. by identifying Samsung’s cash cows, which have big relative market shares (above 1.0), and cash hogs, which have low relative market shares (below 0.5)
                     5. by subtracting the industry-average market share (based on revenue) from Samsung’s market share to highlight relative share above/below the industry average, since it is considered to be a better indicator of a business’s competitive strength than is just looking at the firm’s market share percentage


557. VF Corporation, maker of North Face and other popular “lifestyle” apparel brands, split itself into two separate organizations in order to
                     1. tighten the strategic fits among its present business lineup.
                     2. determine what the corporate parent’s priorities should be in allocating resources to its various businesses.
                     3. maximize the competitive advantage potential of cross-business strategic fit among the company’s various business units.
                     4. determine the degree of risk involved with each business unit.
                     5. assess the need to diversify into other industries.


558. New York-based Constellation Brands, a giant beer, wine and spirits producer that owns the iconic Robert Mondavi Winery in Napa Valley among other wineries, purchased a large financial stake in the Canadian marijuana firm Canopy Growth. Recreational cannabis use has been legal in Canada since 2019. Combination related-unrelated diversification strategies like these have particular appeal for companies
                     1. looking to reduce risk by spreading the company’s investments over a set of truly diverse industries.
                     2. focusing on growth for growth’s sake to maximize shareholder value.
                     3. desiring high compensation and reduced employment risk.
                     4. operating in niche markets where specialized resources and capabilities are needed.
                     5. having a mix of valuable competitive assets, covering the spectrum from generalized to special resources and capabilities.


559. Volkswagen, FIFA, Wells Fargo, several leading investment banking firms, and a host of mortgage lenders can be considered as examples of organizations that
                     1. were careful to ensure that their organization’s strategy was within the bounds of what is ethical.
                     2. adhered to the philosophy that that principles in business are materially different from ethical principles in general.
                     3. due to lapses in ethical behavior, subsequently experienced sharp drops in stock price that cost shareholders billions of dollars, devastating public relations hits, sizeable fines, and criminal indictments and convictions of company executives.
                     4. crafted and implemented strategies that passed both tests of shareholder and moral scrutiny.
                     5. demonstrated sufficient courage to call out those actions deemed inappropriate or unduly risky and correct them before they became public knowledge.


560. Edward Shin, former CEO of a Pennsylvania-based bank was convicted on May 26, 2022, for taking bribes in connection with the bank’s issuance of loans that were guaranteed by the United States Small Business Administration (“SBA”). Shin had been arrested in May of 2019 and charged with taking bribes by siphoning off a portion of commissions on SBA-guaranteed loans and causing the bank to issue SBA-guaranteed and commercial loans to companies in which Shin had a secret interest. When a trusted business agent, known as a fiduciary, acts in their own self-interest in a transaction instead of the best interest of their partners, employer, or clients, it is known as
                     1. business as usual.
                     2. short-termism.
                     3. ethical relativism.
                     4. self-dealing.
                     5. long-termism.


561. The results of strategies that cannot pass the test of moral scrutiny often are not manifested in
                     1. criminal indictment and convictions of company executives.
                     2. sizeable fines.
                     3. devastating hits to public relations and company reputation.
                     4. sharp drops in stock prices and lower dividends.
                     5. increased customer loyalty.


562. Although exposing children to hazardous work and long work hours is unquestionably deplorable, which of the following, if true, leads to a moral dilemma?
                     1. Children are not as efficient as adults in doing physically demanding work.
                     2. Many child laborers come from poverty-stricken families.
                     3. Banning child labor increases school attendance.
                     4. Working children learn independence.
                     5. Use of adults leads to higher labor costs.


563. As they apply to business conduct and business decisions, ethical principles
                     1. deal chiefly with a company’s standards about what is right and wrong insofar as the conduct of its business is concerned and about what behaviors are expected of company personnel.
                     2. deal chiefly with the behaviors that a company’s board of directors expects of all company personnel in both their conduct on the job and their conduct off the job.
                     3. involve the rules a company’s top management and board of directors make about “what is right” and “what is wrong.”
                     4. are not materially different from ethical principles in general.
                     5. are generally less stringent than the ethical principles for society at large because it is well understood that businesses should not be expected to operate any differently from what the law requires of them.


564. The major drivers of unethical business behavior include
                     1. pervasive managerial immorality and a general lack of scruples on the part of top executives regarding how customers and suppliers should be treated.
                     2. corporate cultures that put the bottom line ahead of ethics, heavy pressures on company managers to meet or beat performance targets, and overzealous or obsessive pursuit of wealth accumulation, power, status, and other selfish interests.
                     3. widespread managerial belief in the ethical relativism school of thinking.
                     4. an aversion to ethical correctness on the part of top executives and a belief that unethical behavior is unimportant and probably won’t be discovered.
                     5. intense competitive pressures.


565. Shannon and Ian, student consultants, chose a home construction business as a client for a semester strategic planning assignment. Upon examination of the client’s financial statements, the students discover that their client has been cheating the government out of several thousand dollars a year in taxes. Their client is a company owned by a couple who are in their late 50s and who have two children in college. Jane and John are the only people other than the owners who are in a position to know about this situation. Which ethical principle should guide Jane and John in their decision whether or not to report the owners to the Internal Revenue Service?
                     1. There is no such thing as “moral free space”—all ethical standards are determined by societal norms, and individuals have an implied social contract to live up to these standards.
                     2. Few nations or cultures have common moral agreement on what is ethically right and wrong.
                     3. There should be no absolute limits put on what actions and behaviors fall inside the boundaries of what is ethically or morally right and which actions/behaviors fall outside.
                     4. Adherence to universal ethical norms always takes precedence over local ethical norms.
                     5. Ethical relativism should always be adhered to before ethical universalism when dealing within boundaries of a country’s culture and norms.


566. Common moral agreement about right and wrong actions and behaviors across multiple cultures and countries, also known as ethical universalism, gives rise to
                     1. principles that set forth the traits and behaviors considered virtuous that a good person is supposed to believe in and display.
                     2. principles embodied in international law that all societies and countries are obliged to practice.
                     3. a company culture that puts the profitability and good business performance ahead of ethical behavior.
                     4. principles of right and wrong in judging the ethical correctness of business behavior.
                     5. the attitude among management that “the business of business is business, not ethics.”


567. A company’s strategy needs to be ethical because
                     1. of the dangers that top management will be embarrassed if the company’s unethical behavior is publicly exposed.
                     2. a strategy that is unethical not only damages the company’s reputation, but it can also have costly consequences.
                     3. everyone is an ethics watchdog, and somebody is sure to blow the whistle on the company’s unethical behavior.
                     4. of the risks of getting caught and prosecuted by governmental authorities if an unethical strategy is used.
                     5. unethical strategies are inconsistent with or else weaken the corporate culture.


568. Which of the following is considered to be an internal administrative cost that companies may incur when ethical wrongdoing is discovered and punished?
                     1. lower stock prices
                     2. civil penalties
                     3. legal and investigative costs
                     4. government fines
                     5. costs of taking corrective actions


569. Which of the following is considered to be an intangible or less visible cost that companies may incur when ethical wrongdoing is discovered and punished?
                     1. costs of providing remedial education and ethics training to company personnel
                     2. civil penalties
                     3. legal and investigative costs
                     4. loss of reputation
                     5. costs of taking corrective actions


570. Which of the following is considered to be a visible cost that companies may incur when ethical wrongdoing is discovered and punished?
                     1. costs of taking corrective actions
                     2. civil penalties
                     3. legal and investigative costs
                     4. costs of providing remedial education and ethics training to company personnel
                     5. hits to company reputation and employee productivity


571. In 2017, it came to light that, in order to meet its demanding profit target, Wells Fargo put such pressure on its employees to hit sales quotas that many employees responded by fraudulently opening customer accounts. Wells Fargo’s ethical lapses are not a good example of
                     1. how certain universal ethical principles apply in those situations where all societies—those endowed with rationality and moral knowledge—have a common moral agreement on what is right and wrong.
                     2. how, within the boundaries of a social contract, local cultures or groups can specify what additional actions may or may not be ethically permissible.
                     3. how universal ethical principles or norms leave some “moral free space” for the people in a particular country (or local culture or even a company) to make specific interpretations of what other actions may or may not be permissible within the bounds defined by universal ethical principles.
                     4. how universal ethical norms always take precedence over local ethical norms.
                     5. how local ethical norms always take precedence over universal ethical norms.


572. The costs incurred when ethical wrongdoing occurs fall into three specific categories and include all except
                     1. intangible costs such as legal and investigative costs incurred by the company.
                     2. internal administrative costs associated with ensuring future compliance.
                     3. intangible costs such as customer defections.
                     4. less visible costs such as costs of complying with often harsher government regulation.
                     5. visible costs to shareholders such as lower stock price.


573. Notions of right and wrong, fair and unfair, moral and immoral, ethical and unethical
                     1. vary enormously from religion to religion and country to country across the world.
                     2. are present in all societies, organizations, and individuals.
                     3. ultimately depend on the circumstances—nothing is really black or white when it comes to ethical standards.
                     4. are governed mainly by the thinking and writings of religious clerics at the School of Morally Correct Thinking and Behavior in Geneva, Switzerland.
                     5. ultimately depend on a person’s own values and beliefs.


574. In 2020, Smithfield Foods, one of the nation’s largest meat-packing companies, came under public scrutiny for refusing to disclose the number of positive novel coronavirus cases among its employees, as well as for its decision to export large amounts of meat to China while publicly warning about a looming meat shortage in the United States. Smithfield Foods’s chief executive, Kenneth Sullivan, responded to critics of the company’s actions by saying, “Processing plants were no more designed to operate in a pandemic than hospitals were designed to produce pork. In other words, for better or worse, our plants are what they are. Four walls, engineered design, efficient use of space, etc.” How would you characterize Smithfield Foods’ response in this situation?
                     1. Any strategy that increases the risk of continued scrutiny or eventual litigation would reflect badly on the character of Smithfield Foods’ personnel.
                     2. Smithfield Foods’s senior executives are correct in their assessment because it is considered to be an essential business.
                     3. An ethical strategy would run counter to the self-interest of Smithfield Foods’s shareholders, partly because an ethical strategy can reduce profits and partly because ethical behavior can impair employee productivity.
                     4. Smithfield Foods’ customers in China will appreciate its efforts to sustain normal operations in the midst of a global health crisis.
                     5. A strategy that is perceived to be unethical but is actually ethical, but maybe not good for business.


575. Which of these situations demonstrates how companies of strong moral character have pursued ethical strategies?
                     1. Employees at Thinx, a manufacturer of women’s absorbent underwear, tolerate harassment, low pay, short maternity leaves, and the high demands of their jobs because they believe that the company is dedicated to a just cause.
                     2. Employees at Wayfair, the online home furnishings giant, walk out of the company’s Boston headquarters to protest its sale of $200,000 worth of bedroom furniture to a government contractor that operates a network of shelters for migrant children near the southwestern U.S. border.
                     3. McDonald’s board of directors dismiss CEO Steve Easterbrook after determining that he had engaged in a relationship that violated company policy prohibiting employees with “a direct or indirect reporting relationship” from “dating or having a sexual relationship.”
                     4. Quaker Oats’ management announces the company will retire the Aunt Jemima name and character that had been associated with racial stereotyping after widespread international protests against racism.
                     5. Employees at REI, an outdoor recreation equipment retailer and employee-owned cooperative, report on social media that their store managers in Arizona and Texas had not properly informed them about colleagues who had tested positive for the novel coronavirus.


576. According to the school of ethical universalism,
                     1. universal ethical principles or norms put limits on what actions and behaviors fall inside the boundaries of what is right and which ones fall outside; such universal norms include honesty, trustworthiness, respecting the rights of others, practicing the Golden Rule, and avoiding unnecessary harm to workers or to the users of the company’s product or service.
                     2. all societies and countries are obligated to apply universally defined ethical principles of right and wrong as set forth in the Global Code of Ethical and Social Morality (which is subscribed to by 150 nations of the world).
                     3. all societies and countries apply essentially the very same set of universally defined ethical principles of right and wrong in judging the ethical correctness of business behavior.
                     4. it is only fair that the standards of what’s ethical and what’s unethical be applied universally to all businesses in all countries irrespective of local business traditions and local business norms.
                     5. the standards of what constitutes ethical and unethical behavior in business situations are partly universal, but in the main are governed by local business norms.


577. The contention that because different societies and cultures have divergent values and standards of right and wrong, it is appropriate to judge behavior as ethical or unethical in the light of local customs and social mores rather than according to a single set of ethical standards
                     1. defines what is meant by “ethical relativism.”
                     2. defines what is meant by “ethical universalism.”
                     3. is the foundation of integrated social contracts theory.
                     4. is the basis for the theories of both “ethical relativism” and “ethical universalism.”
                     5. is the foundation for integrated social contracts theory, ethical relativism theory, and ethical universalism theory.


578. The school of ethical relativism holds that
                     1. what constitutes ethical or unethical conduct varies according to the religious convictions of each society or each culture within a country.
                     2. when there are country or cross-cultural differences in what is considered ethical or unethical in business situations, it is appropriate for local moral standards to take precedence over what the ethical standards may be elsewhere.
                     3. concepts of right and wrong are always governed by business norms in each country, culture, or society.
                     4. concepts of right and wrong are always a function of each individual’s own set of values, beliefs, and ethical convictions.
                     5. concepts of right and wrong as they apply to business behavior are always varying shades of gray, never absolute (i.e., black or white).


579. A belief in ethical relativism leads to the conclusion that
                     1. because ethical standards are subjective, it is perfectly appropriate for each company to define and implement its own ethical principles of right and wrong as concerns the use of underage labor and the payment of bribes and kickbacks.
                     2. ethical standards are determined objectively (rather than subjectively).
                     3. whether the payment of bribes and kickbacks should be deemed ethical or unethical depends on the moral standards, values, beliefs, convictions, and business norms that prevail in particular cultures, societies, countries, or circumstances.
                     4. ethical standards are objective and universal; thus, whether the use of underage labor and the payment of bribes and kickbacks should be deemed ethical or unethical definitely is not dependent on the moral standards, values, beliefs, convictions, and business norms that prevail in particular cultures, societies, countries, or circumstances.
                     5. standards of right and wrong are governed by what is legal in a given country; thus, whether the use of underage labor and the payment of bribes and kickbacks is ethical or unethical is governed by local law.


580. A company that adopts the principle of ethical relativism in providing guidance to company personnel
                     1. bases its standards of what is ethical and what is unethical on the Global Code of Ethical Conduct first developed in 1935 and since subscribed to by the governments of 180 countries.
                     2. places itself in a perilous position if it is required to defend these activities to its stakeholders in countries with higher ethical expectations or standards because it has no ethical standards or principles of its own.
                     3. has no fair way to judge the ethical correctness of the conduct of company personnel.
                     4. has a one-size-fits-all set of ethical standards.
                     5. allows each company employee to determine what set of ethical standards to observe.


581. The contention that ethical standards should be governed both by (1) a limited number of universal ethical principles that are widely recognized as putting legitimate ethical boundaries on actions and behavior in all situations and (2) the circumstances of local cultures, traditions, and shared values that further prescribe what constitutes ethically permissible behavior and what does not are the basic principles of
                     1. the school of ethical relativism.
                     2. the school of ethical universalism.
                     3. integrative social contracts theory.
                     4. the global corruption standards published by Transparency International.
                     5. the Global Code of Ethical and Social Morality developed by the United Nations.


582. According to integrative social contracts theory, the ethical standards a company should try to uphold
                     1. are governed by the school of ethical universalism.
                     2. are governed both by (1) a limited number of universal ethical principles that are widely recognized as putting legitimate ethical boundaries on actions and behavior in all situations and (2) the circumstances of local cultures, traditions, and shared values that further prescribe what constitutes ethically permissible behavior and what does not—but universal norms always take precedence over local ethical norms.
                     3. are governed by each country’s Code of Required Ethical Conduct, which sets forth that each individual, group, business, and organization has a “social contract” to observe the ethical and moral standards that the country has adopted.
                     4. should be determined by the company’s board of directors.
                     5. should never be absolute but rather always provide some wiggle room according to the circumstances of the situation.


583. Integrative social contracts theory maintains that
                     1. there is no such thing as “moral free space”: all ethical standards are determined by societal norms, and individuals have an implied social contract to live up to these standards.
                     2. few nations or cultures have a common moral agreement about what is ethically right and wrong.
                     3. there should be no absolute limits put on what actions and behaviors fall inside the boundaries of what is ethically or morally right and which actions and behaviors fall outside.
                     4. “first-order” universal ethical norms always take precedence over “second-order” local ethical norms.
                     5. each country, culture, and society has commonly held views about what constitutes ethically appropriate actions/behaviors; these common standards of what is ethical and what is not combine to form a “social contract” that all individuals in that country, culture, and society are obligated to observe.


584. A multinational automobile manufacturer issues a public statement that the company’s vehicle emissions tests had been falsified to meet environmental compliance standards over recent years using software specifically designed for that purpose. Following the news, the company’s CEO is replaced, vehicle sales plummet, and the company’s stock price sharply declines. Which of the following has the company incurred?
                     1. reduced risk of reputation-damaging incidents
                     2. only visible and internal administrative costs
                     3. internal benefits such as improved workforce retention and operational efficiency
                     4. visible and intangible costs
                     5. internal administrative costs but not intangible costs


585. A manufacturer and marketer of prescription pharmaceuticals decided to raise the price of its anti-malaria drug from $15.00 per dose to $750.00 per dose, a price increase of 5,000 percent. Following a public outcry, the CEO was forced to resign, the company was forced to retract the price hike, and the company’s stock price sharply declined. Which of the following has the company incurred?
                     1. internal administrative costs but not visible costs
                     2. only visible and internal administrative costs
                     3. visible and intangible costs
                     4. internal administrative costs but not intangible costs
                     5. only intangible costs


586. Which of the following is most likely to be morally valid from the perspective of ethical relativism?
                     1. agreeing to a country’s policy of prohibiting the education of females
                     2. employing children under the age of nine as laborers
                     3. bribing a government official in an underdeveloped country to obtain a permit to build a hospital
                     4. bribing a government official to allow you to transfer gambling winnings to a tax haven


587. Which one of the following is not a part of the business case for why companies should act in a socially responsible manner?
                     1. reduced risk of reputation-damaging incidents
                     2. increased buyer patronage
                     3. internal benefits such as improved workforce retention and operational efficiency
                     4. aggressive pursuit of market share, revenues, and profits
                     5. shareholders’ benefits, such as increased stock price and financial performance


588. You are asked to assist a company to fulfill its corporate social responsibility. Which of the following is an activity you would recommend that a company consider to enhance the quality of life for its employees?
                     1. providing work-at-home opportunities
                     2. donating a percentage of its profits to a global charity like UNICEF or the Red Cross
                     3. selling products at a discounted price to customers in underdeveloped countries
                     4. paying to have litter removed from a state highway
                     5. discontinuing business with suppliers that use child labor


589. Corporate social responsibility (CSR) as it applies to businesses refers to
                     1. a company’s duty to put the public interest ahead of shareholder interests.
                     2. societal expectations that all company stakeholders will be treated equally and fairly.
                     3. a company’s duty to establish socially acceptable core values and to have a strictly enforced code of ethical conduct.
                     4. the responsibility that top management has for ensuring that the company’s actions and decisions are in the best interest of society at large.
                     5. a company’s duty to operate in an honorable manner, provide good working conditions for employees, encourage workforce diversity, be a good steward of the environment, and actively work to better the quality of life in the local communities where it operates and in society at large.


590. Which of the following is not generally on a company’s menu of actions to consider in crafting a strategy of social responsibility?
                     1. actions to ensure that the company operates in an honorable and ethical manner
                     2. actions to build a workforce that is diverse with respect to gender, race, national origin, and perhaps other personal characteristics
                     3. actions to look out exclusively for the best interests of shareholders
                     4. actions to protect or enhance the environment (apart from what is required by governmental authorities)
                     5. actions to create a work environment that enhances the quality of life for employees


591. Uber prized ruthless internal competition and WeWork promoted a partying, self-dealing culture. These two companies represented examples of workplaces cultures
                     1. that balanced the time and money their companies spend to carry out social responsibility while preserving the bottom line.
                     2. that prized internal benefits such as improved workforce retention and motivation.
                     3. designed for the aggressive pursuit of market share, revenues, and profits.
                     4. that increased the risk of reputation-damaging incidents.
                     5. that promoted increased buyer patronage.


592. The essence of socially responsible business behavior is
                     1. encouraging company personnel to run for political offices.
                     2. balancing strategic actions to benefit shareholders against the duty to be a good corporate citizen.
                     3. undertaking actions to balance the interests of all company stakeholders rather than just exclusively look out for the interests of shareholders.
                     4. making sizeable contributions to political action committees representing the interests of the industry.
                     5. pursuing actions to keep prices low enough that the company’s profits will not be viewed by the general public as obscenely high or exorbitant.


593. Suppose that you are the chief executive of an automobile manufacturer. Your management team brings you a proposal: “Let’s close a plant producing gasoline cars in Michigan and open one producing electric cars farther south.” You must decide whether to approve the plan. Which action would typically be considered in crafting your company’s strategy of social responsibility?
                     1. actions to promote your shareholders’ interests such as raising the dividend or boosting the stock price
                     2. actions restricting community service endeavors by employees in order to maintain productivity and meet quotas
                     3. actions to ensure that your company provides relocation assistance and continuous employment for staff after the Michigan plant is closed
                     4. actions that find loopholes in restrictive government regulations to permit the relaxation of workplace safety policies
                     5. actions to increase profits by locating the new plant in a low-wage country like Mexico


594. Good corporate citizens
                     1. go beyond meeting society’s expectations for ethical strategies and business behavior by fostering social benefit and balancing the interests of all.
                     2. are active participants in the political process.
                     3. identify up-and-coming managers who have a future in local- or state-level politics.
                     4. create a democratic workplace in which the voices of lower-level employees are heard through representation on the board of directors.
                     5. ensure that their workforce is diverse.


595. Environmental sustainability involves
                     1. a corporate commitment to go beyond society’s expectations for ethical strategies and business behavior to address the unmet noneconomic needs of society.
                     2. striking a balance between (1) the economic responsibility to reward shareholders with profits, (2) the legal responsibility to follow the laws in countries where it operates, (3) the ethical responsibility to abide by society’s moral norms, and (4) the discretionary philanthropic responsibility to contribute to the noneconomic needs of society.
                     3. deliberate actions to protect the environment, provide for the longevity of resources, maintain ecological support systems for future generations, and guard against the ultimate endangerment of the planet.
                     4. developing strategies that yield a sustainable competitive advantage that will allow the company to be sustainable for the long term.
                     5. deliberate actions that companies take in the environmental arena in order to meet the needs of the present while foregoing the needs of the future.


596. Companies committed to environmental sustainability
                     1. consider the commitment to shareholders as a “first-order” priority, commitment to employees as a “second-order” priority, and commitment to the environmental protection as a “third-order” commitment.
                     2. consider the commitment to the environment as a “first-order” priority, commitment to employees as a “second-order” priority, and commitment to shareholders as a “third-order” commitment.
                     3. consider the commitment to the environment as a “first-order” priority, commitment to shareholders as a “second-order” priority, and commitment to employees as a “third-order” commitment.
                     4. undertake initiatives directed at improving the company’s triple-bottom-line (TBL), which places importance on economic, environmental, and social metrics.
                     5. believe that it is important to convince consumers to change buying habits that first consider meeting the consumer’s needs to first considering whether the product is environmentally friendly.


597. CSR and sustainability strategies typically entail
                     1. careful consideration of revised corporate social agendas, specifically for the purpose of improving a company’s competitive strength in the marketplace.
                     2. discontinuing a company’s customer value proposition or key value chain activities that may not be considered socially responsible.
                     3. selectively weakening a company’s competitive advantage in the marketplace in order to provide for the longevity of natural resources, maintain ecological support systems for future generations, and guard against ultimate endangerment of the planet.
                     4. an observable and measurable level of expenditure that consists of 5 percent (or more) of pretax profits on social responsibility initiatives.
                     5. deliberate actions to protect the environment, provide for the longevity of natural resources, maintain ecological support systems for future generations, and guard against ultimate endangerment of the planet.


598. A company’s social responsibility strategy typically comprises
                     1. actions to enhance workforce homogeneity.
                     2. lobbying the government to rescind workplace safety and environmental regulations.
                     3. making tradeoffs between the betterment of profits versus the quality of life in the local community in which it operates.
                     4. conscious efforts to ensure that all elements of the company’s strategy are ethical and that its actions protect or enhance the environment (beyond what is legally required).
                     5. ensuring the company’s pricing and profits will not be viewed by the general public as obscenely high or exorbitant.


599. Good corporate citizens
                     1. provide work-from-home options to working mothers residing in distant locations.
                     2. develop and market products that are solely “environmentally friendly.”
                     3. identify up-and-coming managers who have a future in local- or state-level politics.
                     4. create a democratic workplace whereby the voices of lower-level employees are heard through representation on the board of directors.
                     5. go beyond meeting society’s expectations for ethical strategies and business behavior by fostering social benefit and balancing the interests of all.


600. Good corporate citizens do not
                     1. meet legal, ethical, and economic responsibilities imposed by shareholders.
                     2. identify up-and-coming managers who have a future in local- or state-level politics.
                     3. seek to improve standards of communities in which they operate.
                     4. attempt to sustain profitability for stakeholders while in the pursuit of social responsibility.
                     5. pursue discretionary activities that contribute to the betterment of society, especially in areas where government has chosen not to focus its efforts or has fallen short.


601. Jacki has opened Two Dog Night Creamery, a premium ice cream parlor in your community that sources ingredients only from local organic dairies and fair-trade purveyors of flavorings. Jacki’s rationale for this CSR and environmentally sustainable business practice includes all of the following except
                     1. increasing buyer patronage.
                     2. shortening the supply chain.
                     3. lowering costs and enhancing employee recruiting and workforce retention.
                     4. creating opportunities for revenue enhancement and best long-term profits for shareholders.
                     5. reducing the company’s exposure to the risk of reputation-damaging incidents.


602. Which one of the following is false as concerns the merits of why acting in a socially responsible manner is “good business”?
                     1. Companies with good reputations for contributing time and money to bettering society are better able to attract and retain employees compared to companies with tarnished reputations.
                     2. There is a high correlation between socially responsible behavior that addresses social issues and a firm’s competitive advantage and financial performance.
                     3. To the extent that a company’s socially responsible behavior wins applause from consumers and fortifies its reputation, a company may win additional patronage.
                     4. Operating in a socially responsible manner protects the company from consumer, environmental, and human rights activist groups that are quick to criticize businesses whose behavior they consider to be out of line.
                     5. Well-conceived social responsibility strategies help avoid or preempt legal and regulatory actions that could prove costly to the company.


603. Imagine you are the founder of a company that provides shelter for pets that have neither homes nor owners to return to after a major weather disaster such as a fire, hurricane, or flood. What moral case could you provide to your staff as to why your company should engage in socially responsible actions and environmentally sustainable business practices?
                     1. “Do whatever it takes to meet or beat their numbers.”
                     2. “The business of business is business, not ethics.”
                     3. “Society has given us the moral free space.”
                     4. “Do unto others before they do it to you.”
                     5. “It’s the right thing to do.”


604. Triple-bottom-line (TBL) reporting via the Global Reporting Initiative is emerging as an important way for companies like Starbucks to
                     1. become a part of an investment opportunity via mutual funds comprised of consumer product companies that excel on the basis of the triple-bottom-line.
                     2. make the results of Starbucks’ CSR strategies apparent to its stakeholders and for its stakeholders to hold Starbucks accountable for its impact on society.
                     3. minimize transparency regarding its coffee sourcing and roasting operations.
                     4. promote its exemplary corporate governance, climate change, and labor practices.
                     5. attract sustainably-minded investors and creditors.


605. In late June 2020, CrossFit’s founder and CEO Greg Glassman outraged customers, sponsors, trainers, and affiliated gym owners when he wrote a controversial tweet about George Floyd, comparing Floyd’s killing and the subsequent Black Lives Matter demonstrations to the novel coronavirus pandemic. Then, Glassman made offensive comments while on a call with CrossFit gym owners (the audio of which was leaked to BuzzFeed), including, “We’re not mourning for George Floyd—I don’t think me or any of my staff are.” As a result, among the intangible costs to CrossFit are:
                     1. 1) increased competitive advantage; (2) lowering the legal fees to handle reputation-damaging incidents; (3) pursuing internal benefits such as improved efficiency and workforce retention; (4) pursuing shareholder benefits based on high correlations between CSR and stock price and other measures of financial performance.
                     2. (1) decreased buyer patronage; (2) decreasing the risk of reputation-damaging incidents; (3) pursuing internal benefits such as punishing staff for misdeeds; (4) pursuing shareholder benefits based on high correlations between CSR and stock price and other measures of financial performance.
                     3. (1) increased buyer patronage; (2) lowering the legal fees to handle reputation-damaging incidents; (3) pursuing internal benefits such as improved efficiency and workforce retention; (4) pursuing shareholder benefits based on high correlations between CSR and stock price and other measures of financial performance.
                     4. (1) reduced buyer patronage; (2) increasing time spent to repair reputation-damaging incidents; (3) reprimands for or dismissal of the CEO; (4) pursuing a greater commitment to diversity to earn back the trust of stakeholders.
                     5. (1) increased employee morale; (2) reducing the risk of reputation-damaging incidents; (3) pursuing internal benefits such as improved efficiency and workforce retention; (4) shareholder benefits based on apparent correlations between CSR and stock price and other measures of financial performance.


606. After Pinterest had missed several key operating and financial goals and witnessed its stock price shrink from a high of $85 per share in February 2021 to $19.70 per share in late June 2022, Ben Silbermann, Pinterest’s founder and CEO, was relieved of his position by Pinterest’s board of directors. This is an example of strong independent board that
                     1. remained well-informed about the company’s performance and fulfilled its obligation to exercise its fiduciary duty to protect shareholders responsibly.
                     2. left it to management to choose a strategic direction and make independent judgments about the validity and wisdom of proposed strategic actions.
                     3. showed no concern for the leadership skills of the CEO and other senior executives.
                     4. retained sufficient courage to curb management actions deemed inappropriate or unduly risky.
                     5. wanted to recapture the responsibility for leading the strategy-making, strategy-executing process.


607. The key duties of Sephora’s board of directors in the strategy-making, strategy-executing process include
                     1. developing compelling strategy proposals of their own to debate against those put forward by top management.
                     2. approving the company’s operating strategies, functional-area strategies, business strategy, and overall corporate strategy.
                     3. taking the lead in developing the company’s business model and strategic vision.
                     4. taking the lead in formulating the company’s strategic plan but then delegating the task of implementing and executing the strategic plan to the company’s CEO and other senior executives.
                     5. overseeing the company’s financial accounting and financial reporting practices and evaluating the caliber of senior executives’ strategy-making/strategy-executing skills.


608. Among the following stakeholders, whose duty is it to exercise strong oversight and ensure that the five tasks of strategic management are conducted in a manner that is in the best interests of shareholders and other stakeholders?
                     1. lower-level managers
                     2. senior managers
                     3. government regulators
                     4. board of directors
                     5. activist investors


609. What are the principal managerial components of the strategy execution process developed by Zara, the world’s largest fashion retail chain?
                     1. producing and marketing high-fashion clothing that retail for luxury prices
                     2. using periodic deep discounting to move unsold clothing inventory
                     3. tightly aligning design, production, advertising, and real estate with the overall strategy of fast fashion
                     4. meeting industry standards in how value-chain activities are performed
                     5. spending no money on advertising, which is a hallmark of cost-effective strategy execution


610. Strategy execution
                     1. consists of choosing among broad or narrow low cost and differentiation strategies to compete against rivals.
                     2. involves selecting a capable management team.
                     3. requires revamping the value chain in order to maximize operating efficiency.
                     4. requires deciding which core competencies and value-chain activities to leave as is and which ones to overhaul and improve.
                     5. depends on management’s ability to direct organizational change.


611. Good strategy execution involves
                     1. continuous improvements in the value chain in order to maximize operating efficiency.
                     2. selecting a capable management team.
                     3. making choices among broad or narrow low cost and differentiation strategies to compete against rivals.
                     4. only senior-level managers to be accomplished on a timely basis.
                     5. team participation to perform strategy-critical activities in light of prevailing circumstances.


612. What does a successful strategy execution require?
                     1. Little consensus building is required, despite the magnitude of the proposed changes, because employees know the benefits to be gained from the planning process.
                     2. A team effort is required, with all managers having strategy-executing responsibility in their areas of authority, and all employees should be active participants in the strategy execution process.
                     3. Additional investments in capital projects are necessary, rather than adding to a company’s talent base and building intellectual capital.
                     4. Making choices among broad or narrow low cost and differentiation strategies to compete against rivals is a requirement.
                     5. Incremental changes to current operating practices should be implemented to ensure existing resource capabilities are not impacted too severely.


613. The capabilities and core competencies that Zara has developed in the execution of its strategy, i.e., rapid production processes and new apparel introductions, are not concerned with
                     1. bundles of skills and know-how that grew out of the combined efforts of Zara’s cross-functional work groups and departments performing complementary activities at different locations in a firm’s value chain.
                     2. evolving changes in customer needs and competitive conditions that often required tweaking and adjusting Zara’s portfolio of competencies and intellectual capital to keep its capabilities freshly honed and on the cutting edge.
                     3. acts to bolster skills that contributed to Zara’s earlier successes, or acts to respond to customer problems, new technological or market opportunities, and the competitive maneuvers of rivals.
                     4. cost-effectively hiring a cadre of people with the right talent and expertise, putting them together in a single work group, and then teaming the work group with Zara’s key strategic allies/partners to mesh the skills, expertise, and competencies needed to perform the desired capabilities with some proficiency.
                     5. leveraging Zara’s core competence into a distinctive competence (or transforming a capability into a competitively superior capability), by concentrating more effort and talent than rivals on deepening and strengthening the competence or capability so as to achieve the dominance needed for competitive advantage.


614. The principal managerial actions and initiatives undertaken in the strategy execution process include which of the following?
                     1. deciding how much to spend on employee training
                     2. instituting policies and procedures that facilitate rather than impede effective strategy execution
                     3. doing an effective job of empowering employees
                     4. revamping the value chain in a manner calculated to maximize operating efficiency
                     5. selecting a capable top management team


615. Marine and Ethan are advising a French entrepreneur, Jean-Yves Bordier, founder of a high-growth flavored butter business, about how to match the type of organizational structure to its strategy execution requirements as it grows and matures. The primary disadvantage(s) of proposing that their client retain its current simple structure is/are
                     1. increased response times as changing situations dictate.
                     2. low administrative costs, ease of coordination, flexibility, and adaptability.
                     3. greater cross-business collaboration and ability to capture cross-business synergies.
                     4. lightening the load on top management and greater task specialization.
                     5. inadequacy as the organization grows and increased management workload.


616. The three components of building a capable organization are
                     1. making periodic changes in the firm’s internal organization to keep people from getting into a comfortable rut, instituting a decentralized approach to decision making, and developing the appropriate competencies and capabilities.
                     2. hiring a capable top management team, empowering employees, and establishing a strategy-supportive corporate culture.
                     3. putting a centralized decision-making structure in place, determining who should have responsibility for each value-chain activity, and aligning the corporate culture with key policies, procedures, and operating practices.
                     4. staffing the organization, building core competencies and competitive capabilities, and structuring the organization and work effort.
                     5. optimizing the number of core competencies and competitive capabilities, making sure that all managers and employees are empowered, and maximizing internal operating efficiency.


617. Building an organization capable of good strategy execution entails
                     1. staffing the organization, building core competencies and competitive capabilities, and structuring the organization and work effort.
                     2. decentralizing authority for performing strategy-critical value-chain activities, establishing at least two distinctive competencies, and hiring talented employees.
                     3. investing heavily in employee training, using an empowered organization design and structure to maximize labor productivity, and employing effective incentive compensation systems.
                     4. centralizing authority in the hands of a chief strategy-implementer so as to create the leadership authority for driving implementation forward at a rapid pace.
                     5. empowering employees, maximizing internal operating efficiency, and optimizing core competencies.


618. Deloitte’s successful execution of its talent management strategy does not involve
                     1. sponsorship to help rising leaders navigate the firm, develop new competencies, expand their network, and hone the skills needed to accelerate their careers.
                     2. formal training programs, including mandatory training hours for all of its employees to ensure that individuals continue to further their professional development.
                     3. punishment for missed deadlines, misdirected or wasteful efforts, and managerial ineptness.
                     4. special programs for high performers, such as its Global Fellows program and its Emerging Leaders Development program.
                     5. a clear path to partnership that serves as a motivational tool for top performers, often leading to career acceleration.


619. Putting together a capable top management team
                     1. should take top priority in building competitively valuable core competencies.
                     2. is particularly important when the firm is pursuing unrelated diversification or making a number of new acquisitions in related businesses.
                     3. is important in building an organization capable of proficient strategy execution but is nearly always less crucial than doing a superior job of training and retraining employees.
                     4. entails filling key managerial slots with people who are good at figuring out what needs to be done and skilled in “making it happen” and delivering good results.
                     5. is particularly essential for executing a strategy to keep a company’s costs lower than rivals’ and become the industry’s low-cost leader.


620. The overriding aim in building a management team should be to
                     1. select people who are committed to decentralizing decision making and empowering employees.
                     2. assemble a critical mass of talented managers who can function as agents of change and further the cause of first-rate strategy execution.
                     3. choose managers experienced in controlling costs and flattening the organization structure.
                     4. select people who have similar management styles, leadership approaches, business philosophies, and personalities.
                     5. choose managers who believe in having a strong corporate culture and deeply ingrained core values.


621. Recruiting and retaining capable employees
                     1. is usually much more important to good strategy execution than is assembling a capable top management team.
                     2. is important because the quality of an organization’s people is always an essential ingredient of successful strategy execution—knowledgeable, engaged employees are a company’s best source of creative ideas for the nuts-and-bolts operating improvements that lead to operating excellence.
                     3. is more important during periods of rapid growth than during periods of crisis and attempted turnarounds.
                     4. is an important organization-building element, particularly when it comes to transforming a competence into a core competence or distinctive competence.
                     5. is easily the most critical aspect in building competitively valuable core competencies and capabilities.


622. Which one of the following statements about recruiting and retaining capable employees is true?
                     1. The quality of an organization’s people is always an essential ingredient of successful strategy execution—knowledgeable, engaged employees are a company’s best source of creative ideas for the nuts-and-bolts operating improvements that lead to operating excellence.
                     2. Recruiting and retaining capable employees is an essential element of developing a distinctive competence.
                     3. Recruiting and retaining capable employees is closely tied to developing strong information capital capabilities.
                     4. It is very difficult for a company to competently execute its strategy and achieve operating excellence without a cadre of young managerial talent committed to staying with the company for at least a decade.
                     5. In many industries, adding to a company’s talent base and building intellectual capital are more important than having a good situational fit between the company’s strategy and its external environment.


623. Which of the following is generally not among the practices that companies use to staff jobs with the best people they can find?
                     1. careful screening and evaluation of job applicants
                     2. rotating people through jobs that span functional and geographic boundaries
                     3. weeding out the 20 percent lowest-performing employees each year
                     4. striving to retain talented, high-performing employees via promotions, salary increases, and other perks
                     5. coaching average performers to improve their skills and capabilities


624. In June 2019, six months after taking over as CEO of global fast-moving consumer goods giant Unilever, Alan Jope warned that as part of its sustainability agenda, the company would dispose of brands that lacked a clear social or environmental purpose within a certain time frame. Imagine you have been asked to present a strategy implementation plan to the top management of Unilever. Your presentation would most likely include which implementation option as a means of building and strengthening its competitively valuable resources and capabilities?
                     1. Unilever needs to shift from out-executing rivals to out-strategizing them.
                     2. Unilever needs to shift from decentralized to centralized decision making so as to give senior executives more authority and control in driving cultural change.
                     3. Unilever needs to align its organizational structure with its strategy by returning to a simple structure with limited task specialization; few rules; informal relationships; minimal use of training, planning, and liaison devices; and a lack of sophisticated support systems.
                     4. Unilever needs to rely on its in-house capabilities only if its suppliers, competitors, or other companies possess comparable expertise.
                     5. Unilever needs to automate where possible, using industrial robots.


625. If management is to match a company’s organization structure to its strategy in an effective way, then it is essential
                     1. that company personnel be empowered to make both strategic decisions and operating decisions.
                     2. for strategy-critical value-chain activities to be the main building blocks on the organization chart.
                     3. that value-chain activities be deliberately organized so as to produce maximum strategic fit.
                     4. to define the jobs of company personnel in terms of the functions to be performed rather than in terms of the results to be achieved.
                     5. for the company to be organized around cross-functional teams rather than around functional specialties and functional departments.


626. The rationale for making strategy-critical value-chain activities the primary building blocks in a company’s organizational chart is based on the
                     1. much shorter time it takes to build core competencies and competitive capabilities.
                     2. benefit such an organizational scheme has in reducing costs.
                     3. benefit such an organizational scheme has in improving the productivity of geographically scattered organizational units.
                     4. thesis that if activities crucial to strategic success are to have the resources, decision-making influence, and organizational impact they need, they have to be centerpieces in the organizational scheme.
                     5. benefit such an organizational scheme has in making the empowerment of employees more effective.


627. The most common building blocks for a company’s organizational structure
                     1. are almost always the departments performing such key administrative support functions as finance, accounting, information technology, human resource management, and R&D.
                     2. involve a functional or departmental structure that includes process, geographic, product, or customer groups performing one or more major processing steps along the value chain.
                     3. typically consist of an unempowered employee department, an empowered employee department, teams of front-line supervisors, teams of middle-level managers and administrators, and the group of top-level executives who comprise the company’s “executive suite.”
                     4. usually consist of supply chain management, components manufacture, assembly, distribution, and administration.
                     5. usually consist of two divisions: a division charged with performing primary value-chain activities and a division charged with performing support activities.


628. Companies engaged in a single line of business most commonly utilize an organizational structure that can be
                     1. a functional (departmental) organizational structure.
                     2. either a centralized, principal, or critical-path organizational structure.
                     3. either independent, consolidated, or hybrid profit centers.
                     4. hybrid functional organizations with a combination of decentralized and centralized decision making.
                     5. expected to evolve over time into a matrix or hybrid structure.


629. General Electric has an up-or-out policy, where key personnel in underperforming units are pressured to boost performance to acceptable levels and keep it there or risk being replaced. What type of policy is this?
                     1. tying rewards and incentives directly to the achievement of strategic and financial targets
                     2. corporate evolution to a centralized, principal, or critical-path organizational structure
                     3. adopting best practices and business processes to drive continuous improvement in strategy execution activities
                     4. exercising the internal leadership needed to propel strategy implementation forward
                     5. continuously improving the resources and organizational capabilities required for successful strategy execution


630. For decentralized decision making to be successful, it should be predicated on a belief that
                     1. top executives should establish a collegial, collaborative culture in which decisions are made by general consensus on what to do and when.
                     2. strict enforcement of detailed procedures backed by rigorous managerial oversight is necessary because company personnel cannot be counted on to act wisely or keep costs to a bare-bones level.
                     3. decision-making authority should be pushed down to the lowest organizational level capable of making timely, informed, competent decisions.
                     4. most company personnel have neither the time nor the inclination to direct and properly control the work they are performing and that they lack the knowledge and judgment to make wise decisions about how best to do their work.
                     5. lower-level managers and employees should go up the ladder of command for approval on most all strategic and operating issues of much importance.


631. The chief advantage of a decentralized organizational structure is to
                     1. put decision-making authority in the hands of those closest and most knowledgeable about the situation.
                     2. make it easy to fix accountability when company performance targets are not met.
                     3. increase productivity on the part of the workforce.
                     4. enhance cross-unit coordination and capture of strategic fits.
                     5. create a collegial, collaborative culture in which teamwork is a core value and decisions are made on the basis of consensus.


632. Suppose you were advising Creator, the robot-powered hamburger restaurant in San Francisco, on how to build its competencies and capabilities prior to expanding to new geographic locations. What are you most likely to recommend?
                     1. Building new competencies and capabilities from scratch are easier and less time-consuming than refreshing and renewing current practices.
                     2. Core competencies have to remain continuously updated in order to meet customer needs and dynamic market conditions.
                     3. As experience grows and the robots learn how to perform the activities consistently well and at an acceptable cost, the capability will evolve into a tried-and-true competence.
                     4. Creator should preserve existing capabilities as external conditions and company strategy changes no matter what the cost.
                     5. When a company succeeds in hiring talented employees and training them properly to oversee the robots’ operation, the company’s competencies and capabilities tend to develop more quickly and may last for a decade or more.


633. Among the major drawbacks of highly centralized organizational structure is that it
                     1. allows top executives to retain authority for most strategic and operating decisions.
                     2. is based on strict enforcement of detailed procedures backed by rigorous managerial oversight as the most reliable way to keep the daily execution of strategy on track.
                     3. allows for tight control from the top that makes it easy to fix accountability when things do not go well.
                     4. relies on the assumption that most company personnel have neither the time nor the inclination to direct and properly control the work they are performing and, further, that they lack the knowledge and judgment to make wise decisions about how best to do their work.
                     5. can lengthen response times by those closest to the market conditions because they must seek approval for their actions.


634. You are doing a consulting project for Habitat for Humanity, a not-for-profit organization that builds low-income housing. Which practice would you recommend to Habitat for Humanity to support good strategy execution?
                     1. Choose an organization structure for Habitat for Humanity that is a tight fit with the corporate culture and appoint “relationship managers” with responsibility for fostering the success of strategic partnerships.
                     2. Match Habitat for Humanity’s organizational structure to its unique strategy and promote policies to encourage decentralized decision making.
                     3. Adopt a network organizational structure for Habitat for Humanity that links independent organizations involved in cooperative arrangements to achieve some common undertaking.
                     4. Strive for a loose-tight continuum between a high degree of centralization and a high degree of decentralization at Habitat for Humanity.
                     5. Create an authoritarian organizational structure for Habitat for Humanity and hire capable management team that has a high comfort level with a command-and-control paradigm.


635. The disadvantages of a centralized organizational structure include
                     1. making the organization sluggish in responding to changing conditions.
                     2. a loss of top management control.
                     3. putting too much decision-making authority in the hands of lower-level company personnel.
                     4. making it hard to fix accountability when things do not go well and putting the organization at risk when bad decisions are made.
                     5. impeding cross-unit coordination and capture of strategic fits.


636. A company’s ability to marshal adequate resources in support of new strategic initiatives and steer them to the appropriate organizational units is important to the strategy execution process because
                     1. a change in strategy nearly always calls for budget reallocations and resource-shifting.
                     2. accurate budgets are the key to exercising tight financial controls over organizational units.
                     3. tight budget control is management’s most powerful tool for first-rate strategy execution.
                     4. lean, carefully managed budgets protect the company’s financial condition and eliminate wasteful use of cash.
                     5. lean, strictly enforced budgets are management’s best and most used means of getting organizational units to exercise fiscal discipline.


637. Coordinating the work efforts of internal organization units is best accomplished by
                     1. having frequent meetings among the heads of closely related activities and work units in order to establish mutually agreeable deadlines.
                     2. having the heads of support activities report to the heads of primary, strategy-critical activities.
                     3. having closely related activities report to a single executive who has the authority and organizational clout to coordinate, integrate, and arrange for the cooperation of units under their supervision.
                     4. establishing monetary incentives to reward people for being cooperative team players.
                     5. establishing a corporate culture where teamwork is a core value and decisions are made by general consensus among team leaders in the affected work units.


638. A change in strategy nearly always entails budget reallocations because
                     1. revamping the performance of value-chain activities can be costly.
                     2. the accompanying policy revisions and compensation incentives tend to require different levels of funding than before.
                     3. organizational units important in the prior strategy but having a lesser role in the new strategy may need downsizing, while units and activities that now have a bigger and more critical strategic role may need more people, new equipment, additional facilities, and above-average increases in their operating budgets.
                     4. empowering employees to carry out the new strategy elements typically requires substantial new funding and budget revisions.
                     5. adopting best practices and pushing for continuous improvement tend to reduce costs and overall resource requirements.


639. A useful guideline in designing strategy-facilitating policies and operating procedures is
                     1. to prescribe enough policies to give organizational members clear direction in implementing strategy and to place desirable boundaries on their actions, then empower them to act within these boundaries however they think makes sense.
                     2. that strictly enforced policies work better than loosely enforced policies.
                     3. that more policies and procedures work better than fewer policies and procedures and that strict enforcement always beats lax enforcement.
                     4. to let individuals act in an empowered and self-directed way, subject only to the constraint that their actions and behavior be ethical and in step with the corporate culture.
                     5. to prescribe enough policies and procedures that little is left to chance in performing value-chain activities; employees should have no leeway to do things in a manner that deviates from the company’s best practices standard.


640. Which of the following practices most exemplifies good strategy execution?
                     1. The policy document of Little Caesar’s Pizza discusses strategy but not the routines for running the outlets.
                     2. The policy document of Domino’s Pizza ensures consistency in service behavior patterns across outlets.
                     3. The policy document of Pizza Hut allows for differences in product range and quality across outlets.
                     4. The policy document of RoundTable Pizza is adverse to standardization of the way activities are performed.
                     5. The policy document of Boston Pizza leaves ample scope for each member of the staff to act independently.


641. Everlane is a fashion brand that targets the ethically minded with minimalist basics. In 2017, Everlane went public with its commitment to sustainability, trademarking the phrase “radical transparency.” Everlane’s major period of growth came as many brands realized consumers were saying they cared about the conditions in which their clothing was made. By 2023, the company is committing to ensure all of its cotton comes from certified organic sources, and to eliminate virgin plastic in its supply chain. However, in summer 2020 Everlane’s internal investigators found that insensitive terms were used while discussing Black models; that leaders violated employees’ personal space by touching them, and used inappropriate terms when referring to people of color; that new hires felt isolated and unwelcome; that there was lack of consistent policies around promotions; and that there were no formal processes to effectively escalate harassment or discrimination. Everlane’s remote customer, however, has no opportunities for career growth and none of the startup perks—annual retreats, kombucha on tap—enjoyed by full-time colleagues at headquarters in San Francisco. You have recently received a job offer to join Everlane’s remote customer experience team. Based on what you have learned about strategy-supportive talent management practices, what might be a good reason NOT to accept Everlane’s offer?
                     1. Everlane provides careful screening and evaluation of job applicants, along with continuous training and retraining programs for employees that continue throughout their careers.
                     2. Everlane has a policy of rotating people through jobs that not only have great content but also span functional and geographic boundaries.
                     3. Everlane is dedicated to fostering a stimulating and engaging work environment such that employees will consider the company a great place to work.
                     4. Everlane has a track record of promoting 10 percent of the highest-performing employees each year to increase the overall quality performance metrics to above-average industry standards.
                     5. Everlane has neither developed a culture in which it encourages employees to challenge existing ways of doing things, nor provided career growth opportunities and perks for its remote customer experience team members.


642. Aimée, owner of The Discerning Equestrian, a local apparel, tack, and equipment outlet, is facing growing competition from online retailers such as Equestrian.com. She has sought your student consulting team’s advice about the staffing component in the managerial task of executing strategy. What would you not be likely to advise her to do?
                     1. Provide promising employees with challenging, interesting, and skill-stretching assignments.
                     2. Strive to retain talented, high-performing employees via promotions, salary increases, performance bonuses, stock options and equity ownership, fringe benefit packages, and other perks.
                     3. Hire only people below the age of 35 who have college degrees and a grade point average of B or better.
                     4. Coach average performers to improve their skills and capabilities, while weeding out underperformers.
                     5. Foster a stimulating and engaging work environment such that employees will consider the company a great place to work.


643. Angelina, the owner of a regional high-end women’s fashion retail chain, has asked you to provide a tool that her company managers can use to promote continuous improvement (operating excellence) in performing value-chain activities. You would not recommend which tool for this purpose?
                     1. variability reduction analysis in work processes
                     2. Six Sigma quality control techniques
                     3. total quality management (TQM)
                     4. business process reengineering
                     5. strategic group mapping


644. Business process reengineering is a tool for
                     1. expediting the redesign of existing products and shortening the design-to-market cycle.
                     2. pulling the pieces of strategy-critical activities out of different departments and unifying their performance in a single department or cross-functional work group.
                     3. instituting total quality management.
                     4. making the most effective use of Six Sigma techniques.
                     5. rapidly redesigning an organization’s structure so as to rapidly create organizational competencies and capabilities.


645. Reengineering how a firm performs a business process
                     1. is a tool for pulling the pieces of strategy-critical processes out of different departments and unifying their performance in a single department or cross-functional work group.
                     2. is the most frequently used tool of total quality management (TQM).
                     3. requires that a company have many strategic partnerships and alliances with outsiders.
                     4. is typically cheaper and easier to do than using Six Sigma techniques to achieve the same cost savings.
                     5. is usually a company’s most important “best practice” for achieving operating excellence.


646. Total quality management (TQM)
                     1. is a philosophy of managing a set of business practices that emphasizes continuous improvement in all phases of operations, 100 percent accuracy in performing tasks, involvement and empowerment of employees at all levels, team-based work design, benchmarking, and total customer satisfaction.
                     2. is a valuable tool for helping company managers identify what the best practice is for performing a particular activity.
                     3. works best when used in conjunction with Six Sigma quality control techniques.
                     4. is an excellent tool for reengineering business processes and making quantum gains in the efficiency and effectiveness with which the processes are performed.
                     5. is a philosophy of doing things that aims at mistake-free management of a company’s entire business.


647. Evan, the co-founder, owner, and CEO of a Filipino fusion restaurant and a growing fleet of food trucks selling similar cuisine, has asked you to help his company managers promote continuous improvement (operating excellence) in performing value-chain activities. Among the continuous improvement approaches, which would you be unlikely to recommend to Evan for this purpose?
                     1. an ambidextrous organization that provides incremental improvements in operating efficiency, while R&D and other processes that allow the company to develop new ways of offering value to customers are given freer rein
                     2. Six Sigma quality control techniques, entailing the use of advanced statistical methods to identify and remove the causes of defects (errors) and undesirable variability in performing an activity or business process
                     3. total quality management (TQM), an approach that emphasizes continuous improvement in all phases of operations, 100 percent accuracy in performing tasks, involvement and empowerment of employees at all levels, team-based work design, benchmarking, and total customer satisfaction
                     4. business process reengineering, which involves radically redesigning and streamlining how an activity is performed, with the intent of achieving quantum improvements in performance
                     5. strategic group mapping, an aid in examining what strategic groups exist, identifying the companies within each group, and determining if a competitive “white space” exists where industry competitors are able to create and capture new demand


648. An ambidextrous organization
                     1. (1) demonstrates major improvements in operating efficiency, and (2) imposes tight control over R&D to limit exploration in the pursuit of breakthrough innovations.
                     2. (1) entails the use of advanced statistical methods to identify and remove the causes of defects. (errors) and undesirable variability in performing an activity or business process, and (2) provides bottom-up guidance from operating managers, supervisory personnel, and employees regarding how to alter past practices.
                     3. (1) emphasizes continuous improvement in all phases of operations as well as 100 percent accuracy in performing tasks, and involvement and empowerment of employees at all levels, and (2) focus on how market conditions impact all value-chain activities.
                     4. (1) develops techniques for radically redesigning and streamlining how an activity is performed, and (2) pursues quantum improvements in performance.
                     5. (1) pursues continuous improvement in operating processes and (2) allows R&D to operate under a set of rules that permit exploration and the development of breakthrough innovations.


649. A blended approach to Six Sigma implementation that is gaining in popularity is
                     1. dealing exclusively with procedures to achieve defect-free manufacturing and assembly.
                     2. finding other ways to contribute more to the achievement of operating excellence than either business process reengineering or Six Sigma quality control techniques.
                     3. known as the ambidextrous organization, not only adept at employing continuous improvement in operating processes but also allowing R&D to operate under a set of rules that allows for the development of breakthrough innovations.
                     4. for organizations to become more effective in improving manufacturing and assembly activities than they are in improving such value-chain activities as R&D, human resources management, supply chain management, information technology, sales and marketing, and finance.
                     5. not considered the best tool for reengineering strategy-critical business processes.


650. Six Sigma quality control
                     1. is a strategy-implementer’s best, most reliable tool for simultaneously achieving top-notch product quality and low manufacturing costs.
                     2. consists of a disciplined, statistics-based system aimed at producing not more than 2.5 defects per million iterations for a manufacturing or assembly process.
                     3. consists of a disciplined, statistics-based system aimed at producing not more than 3.4 defects per million iterations for any business process.
                     4. consists of a disciplined, statistics-based system aimed at fewer than 5.0 complaints per million customer transactions.
                     5. is a powerful tool for companies whose customers are very picky about product quality and product performance and who can’t afford for the product they use to break down and require repairs.


651. The statistical thinking underlying Six Sigma is based on these three principles.
                     1. All activities can be controlled, employee empowerment is the best control tool, and 100 percent control is possible.
                     2. All work is a process, all processes have variability, and all processes create data that explain variability.
                     3. All work activities can be done accurately most of the time, empowered employees are necessary for effective control, and good statistical data are an empowered employee’s best control tool.
                     4. All work is a statistically controllable process, 100 percent control is possible, and every well-controlled process is defect-free.
                     5. Most business processes are subject to control, Six Sigma can remove variability in how processes are performed, and most defects can be eliminated.


652. Casey and Danielle, owners of Retrograde Coffee Roasters, have hired Jane, a second-year MBA student in the Data Analytics program, to help them implement business process reengineering for their roastery and retail outlet to enable better strategy execution. Which tools should Jane use to promote operating excellence at Retrograde Coffee Roasters?
                     1. business process reengineering, Six Sigma, and best practices techniques
                     2. business process reengineering, TQM, and Six Sigma quality control techniques
                     3. strategic resource training, business process reengineering, and TQM techniques
                     4. strategic resource training, standard industry techniques, and competitor strength matrix techniques
                     5. standard industry techniques, benchmarking, and Six Sigma quality control techniques


653. The Six Sigma process of define, measure, analyze, improve, and control (DMAIC) is
                     1. an improvement system for existing processes falling below specification and needing incremental improvement; the DMAIC process is a particularly good vehicle for improving performance when there are wide variations in how well an activity is performed.
                     2. an improvement system used to develop new processes or products at 100 percent defect-free levels.
                     3. a system of statistical procedures for achieving 100 percent control over how a task is performed.
                     4. an improvement system used to develop new processes or products at Six Sigma levels.
                     5. a system of statistical procedures for eliminating 100 percent of the variability in how a task is performed.


654. Which of the following organizations makes use of Six Sigma programs to improve quality and strategy execution?
                     1. La Tagliata Boutiques offers a different range of products at different outlets across London.
                     2. LG Electronics reengineers its value-chain activities by creating cross-functional teams.
                     3. Memphis & Company applies advanced statistical methods to identify and remove the causes of defects.
                     4. Milwaukee Hospital improves the accuracy of administering the proper drug doses to patients.
                     5. Amtrak replaces its train repair facility in Beech Grove, Indiana, with mobile repair vans to cut operational costs by 40 percent.


655. The big difference between business process reengineering and continuous improvement programs such as TQM or Six Sigma is that
                     1. reengineering is a tool for installing process organization, whereas TQM and Six Sigma concern defect-free production methods and delivering world-class customer service.
                     2. reengineering helps create core competencies, whereas TQM and Six Sigma are tools for making a core competence stronger and more efficient.
                     3. reengineering is a tool for achieving one-time quantum improvements, whereas TQM and Six Sigma programs aim at incremental progress improvement (striving for inch-by-inch gains again and again in a never-ending stream).
                     4. business process reengineering requires benchmarking, whereas TQM and Six Sigma do not.
                     5. reengineering represents an effort to totally revamp a firm’s value chain, whereas TQM looks at incrementally improving the performance of two or three targeted value chain activities.


656. Essential state-of-the-art operating and information systems that support company strategies and value-creating internal processes include all of the following except
                     1. customer database systems.
                     2. information systems to track supplier/partner/collaborative ally data.
                     3. human resources systems that maintain employee data.
                     4. systems to record and report financial performance data.
                     5. data management systems for undertaking benchmarking, TQM, and Six Sigma quality control.


657. How do companies like FedEx, Siemens, and Walmart benefit from state-of-the-art operating systems, information systems, and real-time data?
                     1. by crafting an “ideal” management information technology arrangement to accommodate numerous situational idiosyncrasies
                     2. by tracking key performance indicators, gathering information from operating personnel, quickly identifying and diagnosing problems, and taking corrective actions
                     3. by weeding out both average and below-average performing personnel that who do not contribute to the strategy execution effort
                     4. by using networking and communications on a “need to know basis,” which is necessary to support effective execution of the company’s strategy
                     5. by working assiduously against the goal of building a competitively capable organization


658. Enlisting employees’ sustained and energetic commitment to good strategy execution and achievement of the strategic priorities and financial objectives is best done by
                     1. a resourceful and effective use of motivational incentives, both monetary and nonmonetary.
                     2. a clever and innovative use of benchmarking and best practices.
                     3. developing core competencies in the use of TQM, Six Sigma programs, and business process reengineering.
                     4. providing employees with a high degree of job security and attractive perks.
                     5. having top executives commit to making employees the company’s most valuable competitive asset.


659. A well-designed reward system
                     1. is focused on “what to achieve” to be rewarded as opposed to “what to do” and is management’s most powerful tool for gaining employee commitment to superior strategy execution.
                     2. should be free of elements that induce stress, anxiety, tension, pressure to perform, and job insecurity.
                     3. puts the primary emphasis on denying rewards to those who fail to perform tasks in the prescribed fashion.
                     4. emphasizes weeding out employees who are consistently low performers.
                     5. strives for a 50–50 balance between positive and negative rewards and a 50-50 balance between monetary and nonmonetary rewards.


660. An important consideration in designing a strategy-supportive motivation and reward system is to
                     1. link the payment of all monetary rewards to the company’s profitability.
                     2. employ incentives that will help motivate employees to work hard at performing their assigned duties and activities.
                     3. choose those types of rewards and incentives that focus employees’ attention on “what to do.”
                     4. make across-the-board wage and salary increases the cornerstone of monetary rewards.
                     5. make both monetary and nonmonetary rewards integral parts of the reward system.


661. Management’s most powerful tool for winning employee commitment to good strategy execution and operating excellence is
                     1. the establishment of strategy-supportive policies and procedures.
                     2. empowering employees and encouraging them to adopt best practices.
                     3. setting stretch objectives.
                     4. a properly designed system of rewards and incentives.
                     5. aggressive use of TQM and Six Sigma quality control programs.


662. The guidelines for designing an incentive compensation system that will help drive successful strategy execution include
                     1. making the payoff for meeting or beating performance targets a major, not minor, piece of the total compensation package.
                     2. having a bonus and incentive plan that applies to managers only (employees should generally not be included in incentive pay plans but should have attractive wages and salaries).
                     3. having an outside wage and salary expert administer the system, so that there is no doubt as to its fairness and impartiality.
                     4. basing the incentives on group performance rather than individual performance.
                     5. making minimal use of nonmonetary incentives and rewarding people for diligently performing their assigned duties.


663. Shelina, who runs a motorbike riding camp for girls, is considering the creation of an effective compensation system for her camp staff. What would you advise Shelina to do first?
                     1. Establish ethical compensation policies and convince employees that they are the firm’s most valuable competitive asset.
                     2. Design monetary and nonmonetary incentives that boost labor productivity and help lower the firm’s overall labor costs.
                     3. Generously reward and recognize people who meet or beat performance targets and to deny rewards and recognition to those who don’t.
                     4. Pay employees a bonus for each strategic and financial objective that the company achieves.
                     5. Allow employees to propose what rewards they would like to receive to achieve the company’s stretch objectives.


664. How do businesses like Wegmans and Goldman Sachs go about developing employee talent and a building a top-caliber management team?
                     1. coaching benchwarmers to remain patient about advancement and professional growth
                     2. investing in training programs that continue throughout employees’ careers
                     3. maintaining a pool of “B” players ready to step in if the “A” players underperform or leave the organization
                     4. selecting new hires that lack skill sets, energy, initiative, judgment, aptitudes for learning, and adaptability to the company’s culture
                     5. keeping only the most experienced people in jobs that span functional and geographic boundaries


665. In trying to gain their employees’ wholehearted commitment to good strategy execution and operating excellence, managers are well-advised to use all of the following incentives except
                     1. adopting promotion-from-within policies and acting on suggestions from employees.
                     2. creating a work atmosphere in which there is genuine caring and mutual respect among workers and between management and employees.
                     3. giving awards and public recognition to high performers and showcasing company successes.
                     4. providing attractive perks and fringe benefits.
                     5. withholding information from employees about financial performance, strategy, and competitors’ actions.


666. A company’s corporate culture is best defined and identified by
                     1. the strategy and business model that a company has adopted.
                     2. the character of a company’s internal work climate—as shaped by the company’s core values, beliefs, and business principles.
                     3. its statement of core values and its code of ethics.
                     4. its internal politics.
                     5. the traditions that company executives are committed to maintaining.


667. Why is a company’s corporate culture important?
                     1. It codifies formal traditions that company executives are committed to maintaining to ensure the company strategy-supportive culture is change-resistant.
                     2. It represents the integration of the strategy and business model that a company has adopted.
                     3. It influences the organization’s dedication to ethical conduct and accepted work practices.
                     4. It influences the organization’s actions and approaches to conducting business.
                     5. It guides core values and its internal code of ethics.


668. The character of a company’s corporate culture is a product of all of the following except
                     1. its approach to people management and the “chemistry” and “personality” that permeates its work environment.
                     2. its style of operating and ingrained behaviors and attitudes.
                     3. its standards of what is ethically acceptable and what is not and the stories that get told over and over to illustrate and reinforce the company’s shared values, business practices, and traditions.
                     4. its work practices and behaviors that define “how we do things around here”.
                     5. its lack of mechanisms for aligning, constraining, and regulating the actions, decisions, and behaviors of company personnel.


669. Sara is founder and CEO of FlexJobs, a subscription service that’s focused on telecommuting jobs, including freelance, flexible, and part-time work for remote employees. If you were advising Sara on the factors shaping a company culture at FlexJobs, which factor would you consider as unimportant?
                     1. FlexJobs’s core values, beliefs, business principles, and traditions that permeate the workplace
                     2. FlexJobs’s work practices and behaviors that define “how we do things around here”
                     3. FlexJobs’s approach to managing people and its style of operating
                     4. FlexJobs’s mission, strategy, and business model that her company has adopted
                     5. the “chemistry” that permeates FlexJobs’s work environment


670. The hallmarks of a high-performance corporate culture include
                     1. frequently revised and updated values and ethics statements, a deep commitment to employee training, and unusually attractive fringe benefit packages for company personnel.
                     2. a “can-do” spirit, pride in doing things right, no-excuses accountability, and a pervasive results-oriented work climate in which people go the extra mile to meet or beat stretch objectives.
                     3. a balanced scorecard approach to measuring performance, strong emphasis on teamwork, strict enforcement of company policies and procedures, and incentive compensation for all employees.
                     4. a deep commitment to pioneering new best practices, a preference for being a fast follower as opposed to a first mover or late mover (because the risks are more acceptable), and across-the-board bonuses for all personnel when the company meets or beats stretch objectives.
                     5. a deep commitment to top-notch quality and superior customer service, dedicated use of TQM and/or Six Sigma quality control programs, and the payment of big performance bonuses and stock options.


671. Which one of the following statements about a high-performance culture is false?
                     1. High-performance cultures are characterized by a pride in doing things right and a no-excuses sense of accountability.
                     2. High-performance cultures often have a low regard for high ethical standards, a strong preference for high-risk strategies, and a slow and methodical approach to responding to changes in the marketplace.
                     3. The challenge in creating a high-performance culture is to inspire high loyalty and dedication on the part of employees, such that they are energized to do things right.
                     4. In a high-performance culture, there’s a razor-sharp focus on what needs to be done.
                     5. In high-performance cultures, there’s a strong sense of involvement on the part of company personnel and emphasis on individual initiative and creativity.


672. The hallmark of an adaptive corporate culture is
                     1. a shared willingness to adapt core values to fit the changing requirements of an evolving strategy.
                     2. a conservative strategy, prudent risk taking, and strong peer pressures to observe cultural norms.
                     3. a willingness on the part of organizational members to accept change and take on the challenge of introducing and executing new strategies.
                     4. a commitment to the types of core values and ethical standards that make a company a great place to work.
                     5. a strong preference for performance-based compensation systems, especially the payment of bonuses and stock options.


673. Which of the following statements about adaptive corporate cultures is false?
                     1. The hallmark of adaptive corporate cultures is a willingness on the part of organizational members to accept change and take on the challenge of introducing and executing new strategies.
                     2. Internal entrepreneurship and initiative on the part of individuals and groups is discouraged and punished.
                     3. Change is willingly embraced by management and nonmanagerial employees.
                     4. Adaptive cultures are exceptionally well suited to companies with fast-changing strategies and market environments.
                     5. For an adaptive culture to remain intact over time, top management must orchestrate organizational changes in a manner that (1) does not compromise core values and long-standing business principles and (2) tries to satisfy all their legitimate interests simultaneously.


674. Which of the following is not a common trait of an unhealthy company culture?
                     1. a politicized internal environment
                     2. hostility to change and a wariness of people who champion new ways of doing things
                     3. aversion to looking outside the company for best practices, new managerial approaches, and innovative ideas
                     4. aversion to incentive compensation, failure to recruit the best and brightest employees, subpar support for employee training, and overemphasis on working in teams
                     5. disregard for high ethical standards and an overzealous pursuit of wealth and status on the part of key executives


675. You have recently been hired to work in a high-level human resources management position for The Athletic, an online subscription service for sports fans. The Athletic was recently acquired by The New York Times Company. Imagine that one of your first tasks for your new corporate parent is to develop a list of The Athletic’s core values. What core value would you most likely put on your list?
                     1. commitment to “ends justify the means” and “not invented here” approaches
                     2. winking at or casting a blind eye to unethical behavior
                     3. exhibiting teamwork and cooperative attitudes
                     4. maintaining cut-throat competition with other sports fan sites
                     5. encouraging the formation of clashing subcultures to promote innovative approaches


676. Unhealthy company cultures typically have such characteristics as
                     1. tight budget controls, overly strict enforcement of long-standing policies and procedures, and low ethical standards.
                     2. a preference for conservative strategies, an aversion to incentive compensation, and excessive emphasis on profitability.
                     3. a politicized internal environment; hostility to change; an insular, inwardly focused culture; and unethical or greed-driven behavior on the part of executives.
                     4. overemphasis on employee empowerment, a complacent approach to building competencies and capabilities, no coherent business philosophy, and excessively bureaucratic policies and procedures.
                     5. too little emphasis on innovation, a strong preference for hiring managers from outside the company, very few core values and traditions, and a weakly enforced code of ethics.


677. Companies with politicized cultures
                     1. are typically opposed to performance-based incentive compensation and employee empowerment.
                     2. tend to be preoccupied with making sure the company has a safe, follow-the-industry-leader type of strategic vision and to avoid risky business strategies.
                     3. tend be plagued with infighting that consumes a great deal of organizational energy and often results in the company’s strategic agenda taking a backseat to political maneuvering.
                     4. are typically opposed to sound strategic initiatives designed to promote the well-being of specific functions.
                     5. are typically run by political managers who have little regard for high ethical standards.


678. Companies with change-resistant cultures
                     1. are typically opposed to performance-based incentive compensation and employee empowerment.
                     2. are prone to be preoccupied with avoiding risks, are unlikely to pursue bold actions to capture emerging opportunities, have a widespread aversion to continuous improvement in performing value-chain activities, and prefer following rather than leading market change.
                     3. are often overly gung ho about looking outside the company for best practices, new managerial approaches, and innovative ideas.
                     4. tend to be preoccupied with making sure the company has a safe, follow-the-industry-leader type of strategic vision and to avoid risky business strategies.
                     5. are typically run by amoral managers who have little regard for high ethical standards.


679. Companies with insular, inwardly focused cultures usually
                     1. believe they have all the answers because of their past great market success.
                     2. value their customers’ opinions and fully understand their needs and expectations.
                     3. has a commitment to hiring young people who can offer fresh thinking and new perspectives.
                     4. thrive on doing better by adapting to fresh thinking from outside the company.
                     5. never underestimate their rivals because of their proven track record in defending challenges.


680. The single most visible factor that distinguishes successful culture-change efforts from failed attempts is
                     1. forceful management actions to empower employees to adopt new operating practices.
                     2. competent leadership at the top.
                     3. delayering the management hierarchy.
                     4. developing a new values statement that inspires company personnel to put forth their best efforts to achieve performance targets.
                     5. convincing employees that top management is genuinely committed to high ethical standards and the exercise of corporate social responsibility.


681. Changing a problem culture
                     1. is one of the toughest managerial tasks because of the tendency of company personnel to cling to familiar practices and ways of doing things.
                     2. is best done by instituting an aggressive program to train employees in the ways and beliefs of the new culture to be implanted.
                     3. is best done by selecting a team of key employees to lead the culture-change effort.
                     4. requires writing a new statement of core values and describing in writing the kind of culture that is needed.
                     5. can be done quickly only if managers tie incentive compensation to exhibiting the desired new cultural behaviors and if managers visibly praise people who exhibit the desired new cultural traits.


682. Changing a problem culture typically does not involve
                     1. altering the company’s financial objectives.
                     2. both symbolic and substantive actions by executives to implant new cultural behaviors.
                     3. designing compensation incentives that boost the pay of teams and individuals who display the desired cultural behaviors and hit change-resisters in the pocketbook.
                     4. replacing old-culture managers with new-breed managers.
                     5. using company gatherings and ceremonial occasions to praise individuals and groups that display the desired new cultural traits and behaviors.


683. Management can try to change a problem culture by
                     1. selling company personnel on the need for a new set of behaviors and work practices.
                     2. spending heavily on programs to train employees in the ways and beliefs of the new culture to be implanted.
                     3. visibly praising and rewarding people who exhibit traits and behaviors that undermine the existing culture.
                     4. writing a new values statement and describing in highly motivating terms the kind of culture that is needed.
                     5. instituting incentive compensation programs that generously reward employees for adopting best practices.


684. To remedy a problem culture, management should do all of the following except
                     1. identify which aspects of the present culture are supportive of good strategy execution and which ones are not.
                     2. avoid cross-unit cooperation.
                     3. talk openly about the problems of the present culture and how new behaviors will improve performance.
                     4. employ visible, forceful actions—both substantive and symbolic—to ingrain a new set of behaviors, practices, and cultural norms.
                     5. specify what new actions, behaviors, and work practices should be prominent in the “new” culture.


685. Leading the effort to instill a spirit of high achievement into Goldman Sachs’s culture and putting constructive pressure on the organization to achieve good results in a successful manner is primarily contingent on
                     1. the degree to which lower-level managers and supervisors are good practitioners of MBWA.
                     2. top executives’ making operating excellence the company’s only core value.
                     3. the extent to which top management emphasizes a positive rather than a negative reward system.
                     4. top executives stressing the adoption of best practices, pushing for continuous product innovation, and providing employees with a stream of suggestions for improving company operations.
                     5. treating employees with dignity and respect, celebrating individual, group, and company successes, and setting stretch objectives.


686. Which one of the following is a substantive culture-changing action that a company’s managers can undertake to alter a problem culture?
                     1. identifying aspects of the present culture that pose problems
                     2. revising policies and procedures in ways that will help drive cultural change and replacing senior executives who may be stonewalling needed organizational and cultural changes
                     3. empowering employees to adopt whatever new work practices they believe will be an improvement
                     4. making a concerted effort to turn the company’s core competencies into distinctive competencies
                     5. shifting from decentralized to centralized decision making so as to give senior executives more authority and control in driving cultural change


687. Which one of the following is not a substantive culture-changing action that a company’s managers can undertake to alter a problem culture?
                     1. promoting individuals who have stepped forward to advocate the shift to a different culture and who can serve as role models for the desired cultural behavior
                     2. revising policies and procedures in ways that will help drive cultural change
                     3. screening all candidates for new positions carefully and hiring only those who appear to fit in with the new culture
                     4. urging company personnel to search outside the company for work practices and operating approaches that may be an improvement over what the company is presently doing
                     5. designing compensation incentives that boost the pay of teams and individuals who display the desired cultural behaviors and hit change-resisters in the pocketbook


688. You have been hired by the owners to manage Harmony Farms, a small local retail chain that features garden and irrigation equipment. To prepare for the position, you have been reviewing how to make a compelling case for why culture-remodeling efforts are in the organization’s best interests and why company personnel should wholeheartedly join the effort to do things somewhat differently. This can be done by taking which three steps?
                     1. (1) Create and nurture a strategy-supportive culture across all retail locations; (2) tell stories to describe the new values and desired behaviors and connect them to everyday practices; (3) direct organizational change and achieve continuous improvement in operations and business processes at and across all locations.
                     2. (1) Explain how new behaviors and work practices will be more advantageous and produce better results; (2) direct organizational change and achieve continuous improvement in operations and business processes at and across all locations; (3) reinforce the core values, beliefs, business principles, and traditions that permeate the workplace.
                     3. (1) Explain why and how certain behaviors and work practices in the current culture pose obstacles; (2) tell stories to describe the new values and desired behaviors and connect them to everyday practices; (3) cite reasons why the current strategy has to be modified.
                     4. (1) Explain why and how certain behaviors and work practices in the current culture pose obstacles; (2) direct organizational change and achieve continuous improvement in operations and business processes at and across all locations; (3) develop and meet (or exceed) performance targets consistently.
                     5. (1) Explain how new behaviors and work practices will be more advantageous and produce better results; (2) focus on how market conditions impact your resources and capabilities; (3) develop and meet (or exceed) performance targets consistently.


689. Leading the strategy execution process does not require
                     1. delegating authority to middle and lower-level managers and creating a sense of empowerment among employees to move the implementation process forward.
                     2. spending time with, listening to, and encouraging people in the organization to act on their own initiative.
                     3. gathering information firsthand and gauging the progress being made.
                     4. blocking input from field managers, relying upon second-hand reports regarding how well operations are going, and challenging the extent and direction of the company’s progress.
                     5. holding periodic ceremonies to honor people who excel in displaying the company values and ethical principles.


690. Proficient strategy execution requires executive managers to
                     1. be current with events and closely monitor progress, put constructive pressure on the organization for operating excellence, and initiate corrective action when necessary to improve performance and achieve desired results.
                     2. understand all the tasks required to implement the strategy so as to ensure staff will not shortchange any strategic-critical activity.
                     3. attach great importance to gathering statistics that define every task effort and ensure limited variability.
                     4. initiate a problem-solving search to ensure obstacles to success are identified.
                     5. take a wait-and-see attitude towards monitoring progress, relaxing the pressure on the organization to achieve operating excellence, and staying the course when performance and results are below or above expectations.


691. Which of the following is not one of the leadership roles that senior managers have to play in pushing for good strategy execution and operating excellence?
                     1. being out front personally, leading the execution process, and driving the pace of progress
                     2. being out in the field, seeing how well operations are going
                     3. weeding out managers who are consistently in the ranks of the lowest performers (the bottom 10 percent) and who are not enthusiastic about the strategy or how it is being executed
                     4. delegating authority to middle- and lower-level managers and creating a sense of empowerment among employees to move the implementation process forward
                     5. being out front personally, leading the execution process and driving the pace of progress


692. When management is leading the drive for good strategy execution and operating excellence, it calls for all of the following actions on their part except
                     1. establishing a must-be-invented-here mind-set.
                     2. staying on top of what is happening.
                     3. empowering rank-and-file employees to act on their own initiative.
                     4. putting constructive pressure on the organization to execute the strategy with excellence.
                     5. monitoring progress closely.


693. MBWA, or________, refers to a technique that can be utilized by leaders to stay informed on how well the strategy execution process is progressing.
                     1. modifying businesses with action
                     2. managers being well-advised
                     3. managing by walking around
                     4. multibusiness warning approaches
                     5. make better waking actions


694. The purpose of managing by walking around, or MBWA, is to
                     1. learn more about company operations and see how activities are really being done.
                     2. gather information about what is happening from people at different organizational levels and learn firsthand how well the strategy execution process is proceeding.
                     3. give employees a chance to make suggestions for improvement.
                     4. gather information about what strategy to follow and to learn what competitors are doing.
                     5. be visible and accessible to employees.


695. Putting constructive pressure on the organization to achieve good results and operating excellence entails
                     1. postponing implementation of policies and procedures that foster continuous improvement.
                     2. utilizing the full range of disincentives that serve to punish unacceptable levels of performance.
                     3. treating employees with dignity and respect.
                     4. discouraging employees from using initiative and creativity in performing their work.
                     5. isolating individuals and groups that do not sustain initiative and creativity in their work.


696. Success in making corrective actions does not depend on
                     1. (1) a thorough analysis of the situation, (2) the exercise of good business judgment in deciding what actions to take., and (3) good implementation of the corrective actions that are initiated.
                     2. good implementation of the corrective actions that are initiated.
                     3. getting an organization back on track rather quickly.
                     4. the exercise of good business judgment in deciding what actions to take.
                     5. a failure to show measurable progress in implementing corrective actions in a timely fashion.


697. Successfully leading the effort to foster a results-oriented, high-performance culture generally requires simple leadership practices, such as
                     1. treating employees with dignity and respect.
                     2. encouraging employees to use initiatives and creativity in performing their work to continually make changes to operating practices.
                     3. setting strain objectives to push the envelope on sales efforts.
                     4. focusing attention on motivational techniques that instill self-interest, which is the cornerstone of the free enterprise system.
                     5. celebrating management’s success with high incentives and loyalty trips.


698. The process of making corrective adjustments in strategy execution
                     1. varies according to the situation.
                     2. enables companies to indoctrinate new hires rapidly into widely shared and strongly held values, principles, and behavioral norms.
                     3. exemplifies a results-oriented work climate where people go the extra mile to meet or beat stretch objectives.
                     4. features a ceremony honoring individuals who believe so strongly in their ideas that they take it on themselves to hurdle the bureaucracy, maneuver their projects through the system, and turn them into improved services, new products, or even new businesses.
                     5. is a typical cultural mechanism for aligning, constraining, and regulating the actions, decisions, and behaviors of company personnel.


SHORT ANSWER. Write the word or phrase that best completes each statement or answers the question.
699. Briefly define each of the following terms:
            1. strategy
            2. business model
            3. sustainable competitive advantage







700. A new entrant in a market dominated by established players introduces itself with copycat products of another competitor. Would this strategy work in the long term for the firm? Justify your answer.







701. Explain the difference between a company’s business model and a company’s strategy.







702. What is the nitty-gritty issue surrounding a company’s business model?







703. What is the connection between a company’s strategy and its quest for sustainable competitive advantage?







704. Should a company’s strategy be tightly connected to its quest for competitive advantage? Why or why not? What difference does it makes whether a company has a sustainable competitive advantage or not?







705. Marc Anthony Group, Inc., a well-established manufacturer and marketer of White Claw hard seltzer, offers lower-priced products to powerful supermarket buyers at widespread locations and has loyal distributors that supply mass goods to supermarket retailers. With fewer ways to achieve differentiation in the market, most new hard seltzer entrants offer similar products but lack sufficient funding to compete against the well-established rival. Which strategy could new entrants into the hard seltzer market employ? Explain your answer.







706. Why are capabilities critical to a company’s quest for a sustainable competitive advantage?







707. Why does a company’s strategy tend to evolve over time?







708. Why is a company’s realized strategy a blend of proactive and adaptive approaches?







709. In late June 2020, Lululemon, the purveyor of expensive athleisure and activewear, announced that it was betting on the future of personalized remote exercise as a way to reach customers by acquiring Mirror, a home fitness startup that sells a $1,495 wall-mounted machine for streaming workout classes. The value of that deal was an estimated $500 million. Mirror charged customers $39 a month to stream its live or on-demand classes. The purchase was said by observers to provide a good fit with Lululemon’s ambitions to become an experiential brand—from clothing to workouts to memories of those sessions—and to add Mirror’s revenue stream to that of Lululemon’s. What type of generic strategy was Lululemon using to sustain a competitive advantage?







710. Define and explain the importance of the two elements of a company’s business model.







711. What are the three criteria that determine whether or not a company has a winning strategy?







712. What are the three questions that managers can use to distinguish a winning strategy from a so-so or flawed strategy? Briefly explain why each question is important.







713. Why are capabilities needed to build a sustainable competitive advantage so important to a winning business strategy? Cite one of the company examples in the chapter to illustrate your answer.







714. Explain why some companies get to the top of industry rankings and stay there, while others do not.







715. Explain what affects a company’s ultimate success or failure in the marketplace.







716. SandCloud, a venture-backed established company in the beachwear and toweling markets, decides to donate a part of its profits to a children’s charity to improve its market image. Soon afterwards, SoundCloud launched a website that offers new clothes and beach accessories that could be donated to various children’s charities by interested parties. The company gained positive publicity and its sales went up. What would you say about this strategy?







717. Keurig, a coffee machine manufacturer, sells high-quality espresso machines at a very low price but provides low-cost refills of varietal coffee pods at a relatively higher price than rivals. Explain this business model.







718. Pizza Port, a craft brewing and pizza chain in Southern California, manufactures thin-crust pizzas and offers one free pint of beer with the purchase of four large pizzas. What can you say about its Value-Price-Cost Framework?







719. During the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in March 2020, the news for American meat processers was dire. By early spring 2020, the coronavirus had sickened and killed their workers, restaurants ran out of beef, and pork processors were forced to dispose of their stock due to closed processing plants. The meat industry’s troubles were thought to have provided a boost for plant-based meat substitutes, which had a jump of 35 percent in sales from February through May 2020. Impossible Foods and Beyond Meat both made products that looked, cooked, and tasted similar to conventional meat. But their supplies remained steady—and even increasing throughout 2020 and 2021. Their factories were considered to be safer than traditional meat plants, with no coronavirus outbreaks among workers. While their meat substitute products traditionally cost more than conventional meat at the grocery store and restaurant, these companies were able to take advantage of the situation to present a bigger value proposition to consumers. What winning strategies could account for Impossible Foods’s and Beyond Meat’s becoming standout performers in the marketplace?







720. What are the five stages of the strategy formulation, strategy execution process and what does each stage involve?







721. Define and briefly explain what is meant by each of the following terms:
            1. strategic inflection point
            2. strategic vision
            3. strategic objective
            4. strategic plan
            5. balanced scorecard







722. A well-conceived strategic vision helps prepare a company for the future. True or false? Explain and justify your answer.







723. Explain why an organization needs a strategic vision. What purpose does a strategic vision serve?







724. What is the difference between a mission statement and a strategic vision?







725. What is the meaning of the term “balanced scorecard”? What are the merits of using a balanced scorecard in judging a company’s performance?







726. What are the two types of objectives included in the balanced scorecard? Define and provide five examples of each.







727. The achievement of financial objectives tends to be a lagging indicator of a company’s performance while the achievement of strategic objectives tends to be a leading indicator of a company’s future financial performance. True or false? Support and explain your answer.







728. Explain why a company’s strategy is really a bundle of strategies.







729. A single-business company has three levels of strategy. Name and describe each level.







730. Identify and briefly explain four actions that top executives can take that are key elements in directing organizational action and building capabilities behind the drive for good strategy execution to meet or beat performance targets.







731. Identify and briefly explain three actions that top executives can take to help instill a spirit of high achievement into the corporate culture and mobilize organizational energy behind the drive for good strategy execution and operating excellence.







732. Effective strategic planning is not about eliminating risks, but instead increasing the odds of success. True or false? Explain.







733. Effective strategic planning is not about eliminating risks, but instead increasing the odds of success. True or false? Explain.







734. Compare and contrast the strategy-making task for a diversified multibusiness purveyor of luxury products in fashion, jewelry, luggage, and alcoholic beverages such as LVMH as opposed to a single-business company such as GemX, a private jewelry social club.







735. Brad Black and Susan Griffin-Black are cofounders and top managers of one of the last large independently-owned organic beauty companies, EO Products. Explain the strategy the partners could use to strengthen EO Products’ market position and build a competitive advantage over its rivals. Differentiate between a business strategy and a corporate strategy.







736. What are the key questions that form the framework of thinking strategically about a company’s industry and competitive environment?







737. Explain the meaning and significance of each of the following:
            1. driving forces
            2. PESTEL analysis
            3. strategic group mapping
            4. key success factors







738. What are the relevant factors and forces comprising the environmental context in which a pizza restaurant company operates. Which of these factors and forces constitute the company’s macro-environment, and which constitute the industry and competitive environment? Explain.







739. Identify and describe the interactions among the competitive forces that comprise the five forces model of competition. Which of these competitive forces is typically the strongest? Explain.







740. Based on your analysis of the ease of entry into and the threat of substitute products and services in the pizza segment of the quick-service restaurant industry, your friends who own Acre Pizza have asked you to estimate the threat of retaliation by incumbent rivals in the industry. Explain your assessment of this threat.







741. Identify and briefly explain any three factors that lead to strong bargaining power on the part of buyers.







742. Identify and briefly explain any three factors that lead to weak bargaining power on the part of buyers.







743. Identify and briefly discuss any three of the factors that influence the bargaining strength and leverage of buyers.







744. Identify and briefly explain any two of the factors that influence the strength of competition from substitute products.







745. Identify and briefly explain any three factors that lead to strong bargaining power on the part of suppliers.







746. Identify and briefly explain any three factors that lead to weak bargaining power on the part of suppliers.







747. Identify and briefly explain any three factors that intensify competitive pressures stemming from the threat that new firms will enter the industry.







748. Identify and briefly explain any three factors that weaken the competitive pressures stemming from the threat that new firms will enter the industry.







749. Identify and briefly describe five common barriers to entering an industry.







750. Identify and briefly explain any four of the factors that influence the strength or intensity of competitive rivalry among an industry’s member firms.







751. Identify five factors that tend to weaken the intensity of competitive rivalry among an industry’s member firms.







752. Identify five factors that tend to intensify competitive rivalry among an industry’s member firms.







753. Identify at least five common driving forces, and briefly explain how each one can produce important changes in industry and competitive conditions.







754. In doing driving-forces analysis, is it sufficient to simply identify the driving forces that are operating to alter industry and competitive conditions? Why or why not? If not, then explain what else is required for a complete driving forces assessment.







755. Your study group has been working on a case and strategic analysis project for an alumnus of your university who has co-founded a low alcohol craft beer company, Bella Snow. Your client has asked you to explain what the real payoff the benefits from strategic analysis of industry dynamics. Will your team’s analysis enable your client to draw some conclusions about what strategy adjustments will be needed to deal with the impacts of the driving forces? True or false? Explain.







756. What questions should be raised to deduce a marketing-related key success factor?







757. Identify at least three benefits of constructing a strategic group map.







758. If you were given the assignment to conducting an assessment of competitive behavior in the U.S. cosmetics industry, what are likely to be the key elements of your analysis?







759. What is the analytical value of studying competitors and trying to predict what moves rivals will make next?







760. What are industry key success factors? Why is it important for strategy makers to have a clear understanding of an industry’s key success factors?







761. Identify four key success factors that affect whether an industry does or does not present a company with a good business opportunity.







762. Can an industry be attractive to one company and unattractive to another company? Why or why not?







763. Identify the five most impactful driving forces in the hospitality and lodging industry and briefly explain how each one can produce important changes in industry and competitive conditions.







764. Your study group has asked to conduct an analysis of competitive behavior in the sporting apparel industry. What are likely to be the key elements of your analysis?







765. What are an industry’s key success factors? How would you assess those factors for the craft beer industry?







766. What is the final step in evaluating whether an industry’s environment presents a company with an above-average profitability and an attractive business opportunity?







767. Identify the five questions that form the framework of evaluating a company’s resources and competitive position.







768. Identify at least five indicators of whether a company’s present strategy is working well.







769. You have chosen as a course project to review CannaCraft, a Northern California integrated manufacturer and marketer of edible cannabis products. What indicators would you examine to determine whether or not CannaCraft’s present strategy is working well?







770. A distinctive competence represents competitively superior resource strength. True or false? Explain your answer.







771. Why do a company’s core competencies matter in crafting strategy?







772. How can a resource-based strategy lead to a sustainable competitive advantage?







773. Briefly discuss the meaning and significance of each of the following terms:
            1. SWOT analysis
            2. company value chain
            3. industry value chain
            4. weighted competitive strength assessment
            5. benchmarking







774. What would a deep look at the cost structure of Everlane (Concepts and Connections 4.1), a manufacturer and online marketer of slim-fit denim jeans, reveal?







775. A company lacking stand-alone resource strength should focus on bundling several resource strengths into a core competence. True or false? Explain and support your answer.







776. Draw a typical company value chain, and briefly explain the difference between primary activities and support activities.







777. What is benchmarking and why is it a strategically important analytical tool?







778. What benefits might management expect to gain from benchmarking the “best practices” of those in other industries?







779. Draw a typical value chain for an entire industry. Why are the activities performed by value chain allies strategically relevant?







780. Assume a firm is at a cost disadvantage with rivals because its internal costs are higher than those of rivals. Identify several strategic moves that it can make to restore cost parity.







781. Describe some ways that a company can improve (1) its supplier-related value chain activities and (2) activities of its forward channel allies.







782. Assume a firm is not cost competitive with rivals because of higher supplier-related costs. Identify three strategic moves that it can make to restore cost parity.







783. What must a company do to translate its performance of value chain activities into competitive advantage?







784. What are the three main approaches to rectify a weakness in a company’s customer value proposition?







785. Assume a firm is at a cost disadvantage with rivals because of higher distributor-dealer costs than rivals. Identify at least two strategic moves that it can make to restore cost parity.







786. Explain the benefits of preparing a competitive strength assessment.







787. Explain why a weighted competitive strength assessment is important.







788. Identify and explain something that cannot be learned from doing a competitive strength assessment.







789. Identify and explain something that can be learned from conducting a competitive strength assessment.







790. In determining the various strategic issues that a company needs to address, managers need to consider both the results of its analysis of the company’s external environment and the results of its evaluation of the company’s competitive position, customer value proposition, and cost structure. True or false? Explain and defend your answer.







791. Why is it important for company managers to develop a “worry list” of strategic issues and problems that they need to address and to resolve? What should they consider to develop this list?







792. Using value chain analysis, which primary and secondary activities would you consider to be most and least valuable for a company like Facebook?







793. You have been asked to defend why your strategic analysis of StitchFix consists solely of an assessment of the company’s external environment but not an evaluation of its internal resources and competitive position. How would you respond?







794. If you were advising Hilton Hotels, what three main approaches would you suggest to rectify any weaknesses in this company’s customer value proposition?







795. Guadalupe and Gabrielle have been hired by David Ortega, owner and CEO of Lola’s Markets, to develop a list of questions to evaluate this company’s internal situation. What questions should be on that list? What would be the best indicators of whether or not Lola’s Markets’ strategy is working?







796. The apparent simplicity of SWOT analysis is also its major limitation. True or false? Explain and support your answer.







797. What is meant by the term “best practice”? Why does it matter whether a company utilizes best practices in performing the activities comprising its value chain?







798. Though lockdowns and restaurant closures at the height of the COVID-19 pandemic initially gave a boost to food distribution businesses like Grubhub, that company suffered losses in 2021—about $410 million—after pandemic restrictions were lifted throughout the United States, driving down demand for meal deliveries from restaurants. Grubhub soon found itself at at a differentiation disadvantage compared to its major rivals, such as DoorDash and UberEats. What strategic moves should Grubhub undertake to restore or capture a differentiation advantage?







799. What are the five generic competitive strategies? Briefly describe each one and identify the type of competitive advantage that each strategy is aimed at achieving.







800. Identify cost drivers in a company’s value chain. Explain how these drivers impact a firm’s generic strategy.







801. Papa Murphy’s is the fifth largest pizza chain in the United States. Papa Murphy’s is considered as a classic example of a focused low-cost strategy. What are the distinctive features of a focused low-cost strategy? How does it differ from a low-cost leadership strategy? What are some of the pitfalls of using a focused low-cost strategy?







802. Compare and contrast cost drivers and uniqueness drivers in a company’s value chain. Explain how these drivers might support a firm’s generic strategy.







803. What are the distinctive features of a focused low-cost strategy? How does a focused low-cost strategy differ from a low-cost leadership strategy?







804. What are the distinctive features of a broad differentiation strategy? Under what circumstances is a broad differentiation strategy appealing?







805. What are the distinctive features of a focused differentiation strategy? How is it different from a broad differentiation strategy?







806. In what market and competitive circumstances are focused low-cost and focused differentiation strategies attractive?







807. Which one of the five generic competitive strategies is most likely to be best suited for an industry whose product is a commodity? Explain.







808. The U.S. hard seltzer market reached an $4.5 billion in product by May 2021, and the U.S. market is forecasted to grow annually by nearly 21 percent per year from 2022 to 2027. In 2021 Marc Anthony Group’s White Claw hard seltzer captured an estimated 40 percent of all hard seltzer sales, using a proprietary brewing process that consisted of fermented sugar and a yeast strain that took more than a year to develop. What are the distinctive features of White Claw’s broad differentiation strategy? Under what circumstances is a broad differentiation strategy appealing?







809. What are the pitfalls that a company like Marc Anthony Group, producer of White Claw hard seltzer, needs to avoid in pursuing a broad differentiation strategy?







810. One of the big pitfalls in crafting a competitive strategy is that managers, who are torn about the pros and cons of the various generic strategies, will opt for “stuck in the middle” strategies that represent compromises between lower costs and greater differentiation, and between broad and narrow market appeal. True or false? Explain your answer.







811. Juanita and Noelia have been hired as student consultants to work on a strategic direction for a local credit union. The local credit union is seeking to expand geographically in a highly segmented market, ever mindful that each segment has its own complex set of needs and set of consumers with different levels of banking needs. What are some of the risks of a best-cost provider generic strategy that these students would be most likely to mention to this regional financial services provider? Why?







812. Match each of the organizations/companies below to its competitive strategy. Explain your choices.
 Organization/Company


 
	 Competitive Strategy


 
	 Clinícas del Azúcar


 
	 Low cost


 
	 Canada Goose


 
	 Focused low cost


 
	 Toyota


 
	 Broad Differentiation


 
	 Trader Joe’s


 
	 Focused differentiation


 
	 Vanguard


 
	 Best-Cost


 
	Canada Goose: A focused differentiation strategy—see Concepts & Connections 5.3—the strategic target is a narrow market niche where buyer needs and preferences are distinctively different. Through small-scale production or custom-made products, it focuses on product features and attributes that appeal specifically to niche members. Its marketing emphasis is on communicating how product offering does the best job of meeting niche buyers’ expectations. So it calls for staying committed to serving the niche better than rivals without blurring the firm’s image by entering other market segments or adding other products to widen market appeal.
Clinícas del Azúcar: A focused low-cost strategy—aims at securing a competitive advantage by serving buyers in the target market niche at a lower cost and lower price than those of rival competitors. This strategy has considerable attraction when a firm can lower costs significantly by limiting its customer base to a well-defined buyer segment. See Concepts and Connections 5.2.
Trader Joe’s: A best-cost strategy—creates competitive advantage by giving buyers more value for the money—delivering superior quality, features, performance, and/or service attributes while also beating customer expectations on price, possesses the capability to incorporate attractive or upscale attributes at a lower cost than rivals. See Concepts & Connections 5.4.
Toyota: A broad differentiation strategy—(1) creates product features that appeal to a wide range of buyers, (2) improves customer service or adds extra services, (3) invests in production-related R&D activities, (4) strives for innovation or technological advances, (5) pursues continuous quality improvement, (6) increases marketing and brand-building activities, (7) seeks out high-quality inputs, and (8) emphasizes human resource management activities that improve the skills, expertise, and knowledge of company personnel.
Vanguard: A broad low-cost provider strategy—tends to work best when the products of rival sellers are essentially identical and are readily available from several sellers. Commodity-like products and/or ample supplies set the stage for lively price competition; in such markets, it is the less-efficient, higher-cost companies that are most vulnerable. See Concepts & Connections 5.1.







813. What is Trader Joe’s greatest vulnerability in employing a best-cost provider strategy?







814. Strategic offensives should, as a general rule, be grounded in a company’s strategic assets and employ a company’s strengths to attack rivals. Define and discuss the term strategic assets and its significance in gaining a competitive advantage.







815. What is a blue-ocean strategy? What is its appeal, and what is its drawback?







816. What is the purpose of defensive strategy? Give at least two examples of defensive moves.







817. What are the strategic advantages of being a first mover? What are the strategic advantages of being a follower or late mover?







818. In what sorts of circumstances is it strategically advantageous to be a fast follower or late mover as opposed to a first mover?







819. Many mergers and acquisitions fail to produce the anticipated results. Consider for example, the case of News Corporation’s acquisition of social media pioneer MySpace for $580 million in 2005. News Corporation, with its specialty in delivering media adverts, had forecasted that MySpace would generate $1 billion in synergies per year. Some years later, MySpace was divested for a figure of $35 million. What conclusions can be drawn about the pros and cons of merger and acquisition strategies?







820. You are the owner of a French-Japanese fusion food truck and mobile catering company. Instead of entering into an alliance or partnership with a local restaurateur to establish a bricks-and-mortar location downtown, you decide to merge with C’est La Sushi, a regional chain of French-Japanese fusion restaurants. What are the reasons for preferring a merger to an alliance or partnership? Explain the other organizational mechanisms that are also preferable to alliances.







821. Your best friend is considering opening Emerald City, a canine day- and long-term care business that also performs grooming and minor veterinary services. She wants to know what is meant by hit-and-run (or guerrilla warfare) and preemptive strike offensive strategies. Under which circumstances are either of these strategies likely to be most effective for your friend and Emerald City?







822. What are the strategic advantages of a backward vertical integration strategy?







823. What are the strategic advantages of a forward vertical integration strategy?







824. What are the strategic disadvantages of a vertical integration strategy?







825. What are the merits of outsourcing the performance of certain value chain activities as opposed to performing them in-house? Under what circumstances does outsourcing make good strategic sense?







826. Tesla Motors has been creating stronger ties with China to get closer to both its adroit manufacturing supply chain and huge market of car buyers. Tesla’s huge factory in Shanghai works with local suppliers to make increasingly sophisticated components that are helping them go head-to-head with Western and Japanese auto suppliers. What are the merits for Tesla of outsourcing the performance of certain value chain activities as opposed to performing them in-house?







827. What are the most common reasons companies enter into strategic alliances and collaborative partnerships?







828. List four reasons that strategic alliances and collaborative partnerships might fail to live up to each partner’s expectations.







829. Why does a company racing to stake out a strong position in an industry of the future need strategic alliances?







830. The COVID-19 pandemic that began in 2020 caused an unprecedented increase in demand for products such as medical devices and personal protective equipment (PPE). In attempting to respond quickly to this spike in demand, many companies considered collaborating with competitors, and some country governments responded by promising an expedited review of proposals for joint ventures and alliances. But many proposed collaborations, no matter how well-intentioned from a public health perspective, threatened to expose the companies involved to tremendous risk. Identify and briefly discuss at least three factors a company must consider before engaging in strategic alliances.







831. Identify at least three factors that can aid companies in forming a successful strategic alliance.







832. Instead of entering into an alliance or partnership, Microsoft opted to acquire Activision Blizzard on January 18, 2022, for $95.00 per share, in an all-cash transaction valued at $68.7 billion. Microsoft immediately became the world’s third largest gaming company, behind TenCent and Sony. Why would Microsoft prefer a merger to an alliance or partnership with Activision Blizzard? Explain the other organizational mechanisms that are also preferable to alliances.







833. Explain the pros and cons of bypassing regular sales channels in favor of direct sales and Internet retailing.







834. Briefly identify the major reasons a company may choose to expand outside its domestic market.







835. Explain and provide examples as to why the strategies of firms that expand internationally are usually grounded in home-country advantages or core competencies.







836. What are the primary country differences that shape strategy choices in international markets?







837. Imagine you are advising a company that makes designer face masks that protect against disease transmission. You are asked to determine a country for its manufacturing operations. The company’s top criteria for choosing a country to enter is that it should have comparatively low-cost labor. You would advise this company to enter which country(ies)?







838. Identify and briefly describe any three of the five strategic options for entering foreign markets.







839. Briefly discuss why a domestic company desirous of entering foreign markets might see attractive advantages in forming strategic alliances with foreign companies.







840. What are the possible benefits and risks of using strategic alliances to try to enhance a company’s ability to compete in foreign markets?







841. Suppose that you are the manager of an aspiring urban streetwear fashion design and marketing company. Given limited budgets and know-how with respect to foreign markets, what are the strategic options available to your company to expand outside its domestic market to improve its overall competitiveness. Which option would you recommend and why?







842. In late 2014, Swedish-based streaming music service Spotify announced a partnership with United States–based Uber, allowing passengers to listen to their own music during the ride. Briefly describe the intended benefits of this cross-border strategic alliance.







843. Discuss in some detail the difference between a localized multidomestic strategy and a global strategy, and give the pros and cons of each.







844. What circumstances call for use of a multidomestic strategy for competing in international markets?







845. When is a global strategy “superior” to a multidomestic strategy?







846. A global strategy embraces the theme “think global, act global,” whereas a multidomestic strategy relies more on a “think global, act-local” mentality. True or false? Explain.







847. Discuss in some detail the difference between a multidomestic strategy and a global strategy. Give the pros and cons of each.







848. Identify and briefly explain two ways that multinational companies are able to use international operations to improve overall competitiveness.







849. Explain under what circumstances it becomes necessary for a multinational company to concentrate internal processes in a few locations.







850. Under what circumstances is it advantageous for a company competing in foreign markets to disperse certain internal processes across many countries?







851. Explain the importance of competing in emerging markets.







852. List and discuss three strategy options for competing in emerging markets.







853. Annette and Nicole, partners in a craft brewery and farm-to-table restaurant in New Hampshire, are considering opening a second craft brewery and farm-to-table restaurant in Brazil. The partners have come to you for advice about this project. Their understanding is that profitability always comes quickly and easily competing in emerging markets. True or false?







854. Diversification is a sound strategic option when a company can:







855. LVMH’s move to acquire Tiffany & Co., an American jewelry and specialty retailer, meant that the acquired company had to first pass which three Tests of Corporate Advantage?







856. The attractiveness test is the most important test for determining whether diversification into a new business is likely to result in 1 + 1 = 3 increases in shareholder value (as opposed to simply a 1 + 1 = 2 type of increase). True or false? Justify and explain your answer.







857. Identify and briefly discuss each of the three options for entering new businesses. Which one is the most popular in the sense of being used most frequently? For what reasons?







858. Which is the preferred approach to diversification—a strategy of related diversification or a strategy of unrelated diversification? Explain and support your answer.







859. What is meant by the term strategic fit? What are the advantages of pursuing strategic fit in choosing which industries to diversify into?







860. What is a prime example of missteps that were taken in trying to achieve strategic fit? Explain and provide an example.







861. Discuss the pros and cons of a strategy of unrelated diversification.







862. Imagine that you have been hired by Warren Buffet, CEO of Berkshire Hathaway, to review the beverage company’s diversified portfolio of businesses. Based in Omaha, Nebraska, Berkshire Hathaway is a conglomerate that has over 60 wholly-owned subsidiaries and substantial holdings in other publicly traded companies. The company owns numerous well-known brands including Borsheims Fine Jewelry, Brooks, Duracell, Fruit of the Loom, GEICO, International Dairy Queen, Kraft Heinz, and See’s Candies. Your task is to quantitatively measure the competitive strength of each business in Berkshire Hathaway’s portfolio and determining which business units are strongest and weakest. List the six steps involved in the process.







863. Identify and briefly describe the six steps involved in evaluating a diversified company’s business lineup and diversification strategy.







864. Suppose that you are the CEO of a women’s fashion design, manufacturing, and retailing company. What would make it attractive to you to consider related diversification via acquisition, rather than unrelated diversification into a new industry, such by forming an internal startup subsidiary to enter and compete in the target industry?







865. Briefly explain the relevance of quantitatively measuring the competitive strength of each business in a diversified company’s business portfolio and determining which business units are strongest and weakest.







866. Briefly explain the nine-cell industry attractiveness-competitive strength matrix and interpret how a weak-performing business unit would be depicted in the matrix.







867. What is meant by the term resource fit as it applies to evaluating a diversified company’s business lineup?







868. Why is it pertinent in evaluating a diversified company’s business lineup to rank a diversified company’s businesses on the basis of their future performance prospects?







869. Explain the difference between a cash cow business and a cash-hog business.







870. What factors should management consider when ranking business units and setting a priority for resource allocation?







871. What are the four main strategic paths that a diversified company can employ to improve the performance of its overall business lineup?







872. Barbara Rentler, CEO of Ross Stores, Inc. (parent company of Ross Dress for Less and dd’s Discount retail chains) is considering broadening her company’s business scope, by building positions in new related or unrelated businesses. Because of what reasons might you advise Ms. Rentler to pursue a diversification strategy?







873. Under what circumstances might a diversified firm choose to divest one or more of its businesses?







874. Corporate restructuring generally involves redeploying the cash flows from the divested businesses to either pay down debt or make new acquisitions to strengthen the parent company’s business position in the industries it has chosen to emphasize. True or false? Provide one or two examples of how corporate restructuring has emerged as a popular strategy at many diversified companies, especially those that had previously diversified broadly into many different industries and lines of business.







875. What is the difference between ethics and business ethics?







876. Imagine you are CEO of a multinational company supplying infant care products to emerging economies. Consider the legal requirements. Do you and your company have a duty to go beyond legal requirements? Also, consider whether you should conform to the ethical norms of the societies where the company operates. Explain your decisions.







877. Identify and briefly describe the three main drivers of unethical strategies and unethical managerial and business behavior.







878. What is the business case for why a company should pursue ethical strategies?







879. What are the strengths and weaknesses of the thesis that ethical standards are (or should be) universal?







880. Explain the difference between the school of ethical universalism and the school of ethical relativism.







881. Ethical relativism equates to sometimes conflicting sets of ethical standards. True or false? Explain your answer.







882. What is meant by integrative social contracts theory? How does such an approach ensure a strong commitment to business ethics in companies with international operations?







883. Discuss briefly what is meant by the terms ethical universalism and ethical relativism. Where does integrative social contracts theory fit into the debate about ethical standards? Which of the three schools of thought stands on the strongest ground?







884. Explain the difference between ethical universalism and integrative social contracts theory. Which school of thought do you think is most valid? Explain the reasons for your answer.







885. Explain what is meant by the “triple-bottom-line.”







886. Imagine you are the founder of a company that provides shelter for pets that have neither homes nor owners to return to after a major weather disaster such as a fire, hurricane, or flood. What moral case could you provide to your staff as to why your company should engage in socially responsible actions and environmentally sustainable business practices?







887. Explain the key tenets of the concept of environmental sustainability. How does striving for environmental sustainability impact strategic initiatives involving a company’s shareholders, its employees, and the environment?







888. Explain how companies committed to environmental sustainability are able to address society’s concerns about protecting the environment while lowering costs and/or creating value for customers.







889. What is sustainability in business? Define and provide at least three examples.







890. Citi, General Mills, Patagonia and Warby Parker are examples of companies that have expanded their customer bases because of their visible and well-publicized activities as social impact companies. What is meant by social impact and why has it been important for strategy-makers at these companies to find points of intersection between society and the company’s ability to execute value chain activities or better serve customer needs?







891. There is a high correlation between socially responsible behavior that addresses social issues and a firm’s competitive advantage and financial performance. Explain this correlation.







892. What are some actions that companies can take to build a workforce that is diverse, equitable, and inclusive with respect to gender, race, national origin, and other aspects that different people bring to the workplace?







893. A company’s ability to take social responsibility and corporate sustainability seriously by attracting, retaining, and motivating people from diverse cultural background may lead to competitive advantages in cost structures and through maintaining the highest quality human resources. Further capitalizing on the potential benefits of cultural diversity in work groups, organizations may gain a competitive advantage in creativity, problem solving, and flexible adaptation to change. True or false? Please explain.







894. In December 2021, the fledgling electric truck manufacturer, Nikola, agreed to pay $125 million to settle an investigation into allegations that the company and its founder had defrauded investors by making misleading claims about its products and technology. Five months earlier, the Securities and Exchange Commission had filed criminal charges against Trevor Milton, Nikola’s founder and former chief executive, who had entered a plea of “not guilty.” The S.E.C. also filed civil fraud charges against Mr. Milton. Normatively speaking, which actions should Nikola’s board of directors have taken to provide good governance oversight and prevent this fraud from occurring?







895. Unilever, a diversified producer of processed foods, personal care, and home cleaning products, tracks 11 sustainable agricultural indicators in its processed-foods business and has launched a variety of programs to improve the environmental performance of its suppliers. Examples of such programs include special low-rate financing for tomato suppliers choosing to switch to water-conserving irrigation systems and training programs in India that have allowed contract cucumber growers to reduce pesticide use by 90 percent, while improving yields by 78 percent. Unilever’s actions provide a good example of a social impact strategy. True or false? Please explain.







896. Identify and briefly explain at least four major components of the strategy execution effort.







897. Identify four tactics that are common among companies dedicated to staffing jobs with the best people they can find.







898. Explain the difference between a centralized and a decentralized organization structure. Which one is more likely to further the cause of good strategy execution? Why?







899. Which recommended practices has Deloitte used to recruit and retain the best employees to make its rank-and-file employees a genuine competitive asset?







900. Any time rivals can readily duplicate successful strategies, making it impossible to out-strategize rivals, what is the chief way to achieve lasting competitive advantage? Provide an example.







901. What is meant by empowerment of employees? How does it differ from delegation of authority? In what ways can empowerment of employees aid the cause of good strategy execution?







902. Why does a company’s budget need to be closely linked to the needs of good strategy execution? Why might a change in strategy call for budget reallocations?







903. How do companies use strategic priorities to drive how capital allocations are made in the pursuit of good strategy execution? Provide one or two examples.







904. Erica is the owner and CEO of Global Package, a manufacturer of custom glass packaging for wine and craft beer producers. What might be among her greatest challenges in making resource allocations to meet the strategic priorities of her business?







905. Surani is the executive director of operations for Sutter Pacific Medical Center. What would be a compelling rationale for Surani to develop policies and procedures that facilitate superior strategy execution?







906. How do well-conceived policies and procedures aid the task of implementing and executing strategy? Explain how well-conceived policies and procedures facilitate organizational change and good strategy execution.







907. You are the owner and CEO of a manufacturer of camping and outdoor adventure equipment. What might be the payoff for implementing total quality management (TQM) in your business?







908. What three principles underlie the statistical thinking of Six Sigma quality control programs?







909. Sandi has been hired as a consultant to develop a state-of-the-art information and operating system for a local winery to enable better strategy execution. How have Mike and Chris, owners of the winery, justified retaining Sandi and adopting the new IT system?







910. Casey and Danielle, owners of Retrograde Coffee Roasters, have hired Jane, a second-year student in the Masters of Business Administration Data Analytics program, to develop a state-of-the-art information and operating system for its roastery and retail outlet to enable better strategy execution. How would Casey and Danielle justify retaining Jane and adopting the new IT system?







911. The use of incentives and rewards is the single most powerful tool at management’s disposal to win strong employee commitment to carrying out the strategic plan. True or false? Explain.







912. Identify at least four guidelines for creating incentive compensation systems that link employee behavior to organizational objectives.







913. Give at least three examples of nonmonetary motivation and rewards practices that have the capability to foster good strategy execution, and explain how they act to produce such a result.







914. Identify two companies and describe how these businesses go about developing employee talent and a building a top-caliber management team.







915. What is meant by the term corporate culture? Identify the three major types of corporate cultures. Which of the three types of company cultures is most beneficial to evolving a company’s strategy? Why is corporate culture an important factor in implementing and executing strategy?







916. Identify and briefly discuss the key features that can be used to describe the corporate culture of a company.







917. In 2017, it came to light that in order to meet its demanding profit target, Wells Fargo put such pressure on its employees to hit sales quotas that many employees responded to by fraudulently opening customer accounts. Characterize Wells Fargo’s corporate culture. How did its culture undercut its strategy execution effort? What lessons about the importance of culture to the strategy execution effort can be learned from this situation?







918. What are the characteristics of unhealthy cultures?







919. Vicky is COO and Chief Nursing Officer of a regional Kaiser Permanente health care facility. She has asked you for help in understanding how important a healthy culture is for her organization. How might you explain to Vicky the purpose and benefits of closely aligning Kaiser’s corporate culture with its requirements for proficient and often mission-critical strategy execution?







920. Identify and briefly discuss four steps that managers can take to change a culture that is out of step with the company’s strategy.







921. If you were selecting an accounting firm for employment after graduation and hoped to work for a company that emulated the culture of Goldman Sachs, what aspect of its culture would be paramount in your decision?







922. Give two examples of “symbolic” culture-changing actions and two examples of “substantive” culture-changing actions.







923. Janeen has been hired to manage an auto dealership that is characterized by hostility to change, heavily politicized decision making, insular thinking, unethical and greed-driven behaviors, and the presence of incompatible, clashing subcultures. These traits, individually and together, are indicative of what type of corporate culture? What steps, if any, would you suggest that Janeen take to change that culture?







924. Identify the actions that are key elements of leading the strategy execution process.







925. What constitutes effective managerial leadership in achieving superior strategy execution?







926. Gina has recently been hired as the CEO of the St. Vincent DePaul Society affiliate in your local community. She recognizes that her current organization, a charity, is dysfunctional. Employees and volunteers alike stubbornly pose obstacles to executing her strategic initiatives to grow donations to the charity, sales of donated items, and possible diversification into other activities that could provide financial support to her organization’s mission. What might be Gina’s options regarding culture-changing actions that could lead to rectifying St. Vincent DePaul’s dysfunctional culture?







927. You are an employee at a pharmaceutical company that manufactures and markets off-patent, generic treatments for various common ailments. It has just been reported in the press that the CEO of your company personally spearheaded a sudden fourfold price increase in the prices charged for a particular generic medication while taking a huge pay raise for herself. The CEO has worked for your company for 25 years. The same press report revealed that your CEO’s alma mater awarded her a business degree 10 years after she had attended the school, even though she had completed only about half of the coursework. Your company’s motto states: “We challenge every member of every team to challenge the status quo. Embrace change. And drive the business forward with passion and commitment. We have integrity. We behave responsibly.” As an employee of this company, how would you characterize the culture?







________________
Answer Key
Test name: Essentials of Strategic Management, 8e_Test Bank

               1. C
A company’s strategy is the set of actions that its managers need to take to outperform the company’s competitors and achieve superior profitability.


               2. D
A strategy stands a chance of succeeding only when it is predicated on actions, business approaches, and competitive moves aimed at appealing to buyers in ways that set a company apart from rivals.


               3. A
A strategy is predicated on actions, business approaches, and competitive moves aimed at appealing to buyers in ways that set a company apart from rivals. Simply trying to mimic the strategies of the industry’s successful companies never works.


               4. A
Strategy at its essence is about setting a company apart from its rivals and staking out a market position that is not crowded with strong competitors. A company aims at doing what rivals cannot or don’t do.


               5. B
Strategy spells out why the company matters in the marketplace by defining its approach to creating superior value for customers and how capabilities and resources will be employed to deliver the desired value to customers. In effect, the crafting of a strategy represents a managerial commitment to pursuing an array of choices about how to compete.


               6. A
A sales plan that is based on a low-price, high-cost model usually does not work as it creates a wide gap between investment and realized profits, whereas an attractive mass market plan, diversification of products, positive acquisition, and more visibility in a market are moves to enhance profits.


               7. E
A company’s strategy focuses on how to achieve (not raise) the company’s performance targets.


               8. A
A sales plan that is based on a low-price, high-cost model usually does not work as it creates a wide gap between investment and realized profits, whereas an attractive mass market plan, diversification of products, positive acquisition, and more visibility in a market are moves to enhance profits.


               9. A
A sustainable competitive advantage allows a company to attract sufficiently large numbers of buyers who have a lasting preference for its products or services over those offered by rivals, despite the efforts of competitors to offset that appeal and overcome the company’s advantage.


               10. C
The bigger and more durable the competitive advantage, the better a company’s prospects for winning in the marketplace and earning superior long-term profits relative to rivals.


               11. B
Every company’s strategy needs to have some distinctive element that draws in customers and produces a competitive edge. Strategy, at its essence, is about competing differently—doing what rival firms don’t do or what rival firms can’t do.


               12. D
A company’s business model is management’s blueprint for delivering a valuable product or service to customers in a manner that will yield an attractive profit. A business model consists of two elements: (1) its customer value proposition and (2) its profit formula.


               13. E
A company’s business model sets forth how its strategy and operating approaches will create value for customers, while at the same time generating ample revenues to cover costs and realizing a profit. The two elements of a company’s business model are its (1) customer value proposition and (2) its profit formula.


               14. D
See Concepts & Connections 1.1, which describes the contrasting business models of Spotify, Sirius XM, and over-the-air broadcast radio. These aspects of a company’s business model are known as a customer value proposition.


               15. B
A company achieves sustainable competitive advantage when an attractively large number of buyers develop a durable preference for its products or services over the offerings of competitors, despite the efforts of competitors to overcome or erode its advantage.


               16. C
A creative, distinctive strategy is a company’s most reliable ticket for developing a sustainable competitive advantage and earning above-average profits.


               17. B
Developing new tracking technology would be a unique strategy to address FaberRoad’s current issue of losing customers.


               18. E
Companies usually engage in mass production when the demand is high, which usually renders low-priced products. Mass production would also result in easy availability of products to customers. These are direct results of adopting a low-cost provider strategy. Companies that produce high-quality products for a large customer base use a broad differentiation strategy. Companies offering high-cost specialized products have a narrow market focus with lower volume generation, thereby reducing their bargaining power with suppliers who are supplying specialized materials.


               19. B
Fast ‘n Fresh Pizza provides the best value proposition as it does not prompt the customer to invest more and promises a tight turnaround time on deliveries. Johnny’s Pie Shop and Sustainable Slices do not offer a distinctive value over other firms. Loyalty Pizza offers little in return on a relatively heavy repeat purchase investment by its customers. Crackerjack Pizza has a clever pitch but customer benefit is speculative.


               20. C
Simply trying to mimic the strategies of the industry’s successful companies never works. Rather, every company’s strategy needs to have some distinctive element that draws in customers and produces a competitive edge.


               21. D
BloomsJay caters to LGBTQ clients, focusing on a narrow customer base and providing a unique holiday experience. It has adopted a focused differentiation strategy concentrating on a narrow customer segment and outcompeting rivals by offering customers attributes that meet their specialized needs and tastes better than rivals’ offerings.


               22. E
Arnie’s Noshes focuses on healthy fast food for non–meat eaters. It caters to drive-through and casual-dining customers seeking healthy alternatives and generates profits by offering products and services that rivals do not or cannot provide, and by focusing on a narrow customer base.


               23. E
Adapting to new conditions and constantly evaluating what is working well enough to continue and what needs to be improved are normal parts of the strategy-making process, resulting in an evolving strategy. Strategy features that work with evolving markets would not trigger evolution as long as the firm’s fundamentals are sound.


               24. D
The baby products retailer selling unassembled parts made in China is most likely to have the lowest costs and to pursue a low-cost provider strategy. The other companies are more likely to pursue focused differentiation or best-cost strategies.


               25. E
Competitively valuable company resources and capabilities that are difficult for competitors to imitate or best are said to allow a company to build and sustain competitive advantage.


               26. B
Establishing a comparison tab could severely affect the sales of Teladoc Health as it offers similar services with similar features as displayed on other telemedicine sites.


               27. E
The two elements of any company’s business model are its customer value proposition and its profit formula. Square’s customer value proposition lays out the company’s approach to satisfying buyer wants and needs at a price that customers—primarily small retail businesses and restaurants—will consider a good value. The profit formula describes the company’s approach to determining a cost structure that will allow for acceptable profits, given the pricing tied to its customer value proposition.


               28. A
A company’s strategy tends to evolve over time because of changing circumstances and ongoing management efforts to improve the company’s strategy.


               29. D
The biggest portion of a company’s current strategy flows from ongoing actions that have proven themselves in the marketplace and newly launched initiatives aimed at building a larger lead over rivals and further boosting financial performance. This part of management’s action plan for running the company is its proactive, deliberate strategy.


               30. A
A company’s realized strategy is a combination of both deliberate planned elements and unplanned emergent elements. Some components of a company’s deliberate strategy will fail in the marketplace and become abandoned strategy elements.


               31. E
Novel strategic moves on the part of rival firms, unexpected shifts in customer preferences, fast-changing technological developments, and new market opportunities call for unplanned, reactive adjustments that form the company’s emergent strategy. Rivals’ value chain deficiencies generally result in planned strategies.


               32. D
As shown in Figure 1.1, a company’s realized strategy tends to be a combination of both deliberate planned elements and unplanned, emergent elements.


               33. D
A company’s realized strategy is a combination of both deliberate planned elements and unplanned emergent elements. Some components of a company’s deliberate strategy will fail in the marketplace and become abandoned strategy elements.


               34. B
All three companies do not have reactive strategy elements that emerge as changing conditions warrant. They employ proactive strategies to explore new markets.


               35. B
Industry environments characterized by high-velocity change require companies to repeatedly adapt their strategies. The companies in industries with rapid-fire advances in technology like electronics find it essential to adjust key elements of their strategies several times a year, especially in a saturated market with ample competitors.


               36. A
A company’s strategy evolves incrementally as management fine-tunes various pieces of the strategy and adjusts the strategy in response to unfolding events. Inevitably there will be occasions when changing market and competitive conditions call for some kind of strategic reaction or abandonment of a current strategy, but a company’s strategy also consists of deliberate and proactive (or planned) elements.


               37. E
The microbrewer deliberately diversifies its offerings to gain more profits and strengthen its market position—it is not a result of changing internal and external environmental factors, whereas the other examples are a result of changes to the market, changes in customer preferences, or changes in the economic climate.


               38. B
Capitalizing upon the new surprising opportunity by creating a sub-brand that offered exclusive bath products for women was a reactive response to unanticipated developments and fresh market conditions.


               39. E
Canceling the job cuts for the time being to solidify its market position is a reactive strategy to ensure that new operations and current productivity are not affected. This crisis intervention is not a permanent solution, but a reactive strategy to maintain current balance. The first two options are proactive strategies. Second and fourth options are either nonviable or high-risk reactive strategies.


               40. D
A winning strategy must fit the company’s external and internal situation, build sustainable competitive advantage, and improve company performance.


               41. E
The mark of a winning strategy is strong company performance. Two kinds of performance improvements tell the most about the caliber of a company’s strategy: (1) gains in profitability and financial strength, and (2) advances in the company’s competitive strength and market standing.


               42. D
The targeted customer base for Waltham Furniture would be most benefited with a company’s proposition that provides high-quality products at a lower price. The benefit of cost savings on assembling final products is passed on to the customer through low prices, a part of which would also contribute to the company’s profit.


               43. B
New initiatives that don’t seem to match the company’s internal and external situation should be scrapped before they come to fruition, while existing strategies must be scrutinized on a regular basis to ensure they offer a good strategic fit with the company’s internal and external situation, create a competitive advantage, and contribute to above-average performance or performance improvements.


               44. D
It’s unwise to build a strategy upon the company’s weaknesses or pursue a strategic approach that requires resources that are deficient in the company. Unless a strategy exhibits a tight fit with both the external and internal aspects of a company’s overall situation, it is unlikely to produce respectable first-rate business results.


               45. C
The pharmaceutical giant assessed the market, identified a suitable solution to accentuate its market position, gained a competitive edge by adding a specialty drug to its product line, and realized financial profits and a strong market position. The strategy is a winner as it clears all three tests.


               46. C
New initiatives that don’t seem to match the company’s internal and external situation should be scrapped before they come to fruition, while existing strategies must be scrutinized on a regular basis to ensure they offer a good strategic fit with the company’s internal and external situation, create a competitive advantage, and contribute to above-average performance or performance improvements.


               47. C
High-achieving enterprises like Primaplast are nearly always the product of astute, creative, and proactive strategy making. A company’s business model, its operational model, and realized results are factors associated with its strategy.


               48. A
A strategy is distinguished as a winning strategy based on whether it fits a company’s situation, allows a company to produce superior performance for more than a brief period of time, and helps achieve a durable competitive advantage over rivals.


               49. A
The foremost question that Graduate Hotel and every enterprise should ask to be successful is whether its managers have taken the right steps to formulate a suitable strategy and taken proactive/reactive measures to implement the strategy accurately.


               50. E
The managers of every company must be willing and ready to modify the strategy in response to changing market conditions, advancing technology, unexpected moves by competitors, shifting buyer needs, emerging market opportunities, and new ideas for improving the strategy. That said, strategy is about competing differently from rivals—doing what competitors don’t do or doing what they can’t do, so mimicking the strategy of a new entrant is unlikely to result in a sustainable competitive advantage for Double Decker Lanes.


               51. E
Ideally, a company mission statement (1) identifies the company’s products and/or services, (2) specifies the buyer needs that the company seeks to satisfy and the customer groups or markets that it serves, and (3) gives the company its own identity. The usefulness of a mission statement that cannot convey the essence of a company’s business activities and purpose is unclear.


               52. B
Figure 2.1 displays the five-stage process: (1) developing a strategic vision, (2) setting objectives, (3) crafting strategy, (4) implementing and executing the chosen strategy, and (5) evaluating and analyzing the external environment and the company’s internal situation and performance.


               53. E
The process of crafting and executing a company’s strategy, as depicted in Figure 2.1, is an ongoing, continuous process consisting of five interrelated stages: (1) developing a strategic vision that charts the company’s long-term direction; (2) setting objectives for measuring the company’s performance and tracking its progress in moving in the intended long-term direction; (3) crafting a strategy for advancing the company along the path management has charted and achieving its performance objectives; (4) executing the chosen strategy efficiently and effectively; and (5) monitoring developments, evaluating performance, and initiating corrective adjustments in the company’s vision and mission statement, objectives, strategy, or approach to strategy execution in light of actual experience, changing conditions, new ideas, and new opportunities.


               54. E
Figure 2.1 displays the five-stage process. The first step is developing a strategic vision, mission, and values.


               55. C
Figure 2.1 displays the five-stage process and Table 2.1 describes it in detail. Management’s decisions that are made in the strategic management process are shaped by the prevailing economic conditions and competitive environment and the company’s own internal resources and competitive capabilities.


               56. E
See Concepts & Connections 2.2. Most companies have articulated four to eight core values that company personnel are expected to display and that are supposed to be mirrored in how the company conducts its business. The core values thus become an integral part of the company’s DNA and what makes the company tick. By ingraining the mission in the company’s business model, TOMS has been able to truly live up to its founder, Blake Mycoskie’s, aspiration of a mission with a company, funding giving through a for-profit business. TOMS even ensured that its mission and supporting business model would never change; when Mycoskie sold 50 percent of the company to Bain Capital in 2014, part of the transaction protected the one-for-one business model forever. TOMS is a successful example of a company that proves a commitment to its core values can spur both revenue growth and giving back.


               57. C
Management’s decisions that are made in the strategic management process are shaped by the prevailing economic conditions and competitive environment and the company’s own internal resources and competitive capabilities as shown in Figure 2.1, The Strategy and Formulation, Strategy Execution Process, and described in detail in Table 2.1, Factors Shaping Decisions in the Strategy Formulation, Strategy Execution Process.


               58. B
The evaluation stage of the strategic management process (as shown in Figure 2.1) also allows for a change in the company’s vision, but this should be necessary only when it becomes evident to management that the industry has changed in a significant way that renders its vision obsolete. Such occasions can be referred to as strategic inflection points. When a company reaches a strategic inflection point, management has tough decisions to make about the company’s direction because abandoning an established course carries considerable risk.


               59. B
The first three stages of the strategic management process—(1) developing a strategic vision, (2) setting objectives, and (3) crafting strategy—comprise a strategic plan. A strategic plan maps out where a company is headed, establishes strategic and financial targets, and outlines the competitive moves and approaches to be used in achieving the desired business results.


               60. C
The process consists of the five steps outlined in Figure 2.1. Management’s decisions that are made in the strategic management process are shaped by the prevailing economic conditions and competitive environment and the company’s own internal resources and competitive capabilities, also shown in Figure 2.1 and described in detail in Table 2.1.


               61. A
Top management’s views about the company’s direction and future product-customer-market-technology focus constitute a strategic vision for the company. A clearly articulated strategic vision communicates management’s aspirations to stakeholders about “where we are going” and helps steer the energies of company personnel in a common direction.


               62. A
Top management’s views about the company’s direction and future product-customer-market-technology focus constitute a strategic vision for the company. A clearly articulated strategic vision communicates management’s aspirations to stakeholders about “where we are going” and helps steer the energies of company personnel in a common direction.


               63. B
Top management’s views about the company’s direction and future product-customer-market-technology focus constitute a strategic vision for the company. A clearly articulated strategic vision communicates management’s aspirations to stakeholders about “where we are going” and helps steer the energies of company personnel in a common direction.


               64. E
Top management’s views about the company’s direction and future product-customer-market-technology focus constitute a strategic vision for the company. A clearly articulated strategic vision communicates management’s aspirations to stakeholders about “where we are going” and helps steer the energies of company personnel in a common direction.


               65. E
As shown in Table 2.2, for a strategic vision to function as a valuable managerial tool, it must provide understanding of what management wants its business to look like and provide managers with a reference point in making strategic decisions. It must say something definitive and specific about how the company’s leaders intend to position the company beyond where it is today.


               66. A
From Table 2.2, it is evident that an effectively worded vision statement is graphic, directional, focused, flexible, feasible, desirable, and easy to communicate. A surprising number of the vision statements found on company websites and in annual reports are vague and unrevealing, saying very little about the company’s future product-market-customer-technology focus.


               67. D
From Table 2.2 and the company vision statement examples provided in Concepts & Connections 2.1, it is evident that an effectively worded vision statement is aspirational, graphic, directional, focused, flexible, feasible, desirable, and easy to communicate. While consensus among stakeholders is helpful to adopting a vision statement, crafting that statement is in the purview of top managers.


               68. B
A company needs to strike a balance between its pursuit of shareholder wealth maximization with its values, such as fair treatment, honor and integrity, ethical behavior, innovativeness, teamwork, a passion for top-notch quality or superior customer service, social responsibility, and community citizenship.


               69. A
From Table 2.3, it is evident that an ineffectively worded vision statement is not forward-looking, too broad, bland or uninspiring, not distinctive, and overly reliant on superlatives.


               70. A
The defining characteristic of a well-conceived strategic vision is what it says about the company’s future strategic course—“where we are headed and what our future product-customer-market-technology focus will be.” Vision statements galvanize action among company personnel. Alternatively, mission statements of most companies say much more about the enterprise’s present business scope and purpose—“why we exist.”


               71. E
A well-thought-out, forcefully communicated strategic vision pays off in several respects: (1) It crystallizes senior executives’ own views about the firm’s long-term direction; (2) It reduces the risk of rudderless decision making by management at all levels; (3) It is a tool for winning the support of employees to help make the vision a reality; (4) It provides a beacon for lower-level managers in forming departmental missions; and (5) It helps an organization prepare for the future.


               72. A
Mission statements of most companies say much more about the enterprise’s present business scope and purpose—“why we exist.”


               73. E
Mission statements of most companies say much more about the enterprise’s present business scope and purpose—“why we exist.” A well-conceived mission statement should employ language specific enough to give the company its own identity. A mission statement that provides scant indication of “who we are and what we do” has no apparent value.


               74. A
The defining characteristic of a well-conceived strategic vision is what it says about the company’s future strategic course—“where we are headed and what our future product-customer-market-technology focus will be.” Vision statements galvanize action among company personnel. Alternatively, mission statements of most companies say much more about the enterprise’s present business scope and purpose—“why we exist.”


               75. D
A company’s values are the beliefs, traits, and behavioral norms that company personnel are expected to display in conducting the company’s business and pursuing its strategic vision and mission.


               76. C
Many companies have developed a statement of values (sometimes called core values) to guide the actions and behavior of company personnel in conducting the company’s business and pursuing its strategic vision and mission. These values are the designated beliefs and desired ways of doing things at the company, and frequently relate to such things as fair treatment, honor and integrity, ethical behavior, innovativeness, teamwork, a passion for excellence, social responsibility, and community citizenship.


               77. C
St. Jude’s Children’s Research Hospital and Tom’s Shoes, which are cited as examples n the chapter, have developed mission statements (reflecting core values) to guide the actions and behavior of company personnel in conducting the company’s business and pursuing its strategic vision. These values are the designated beliefs and desired ways of doing things, and frequently relate to such things as improving people’s lives, fair treatment, honor and integrity, ethical behavior,, a passion for excellence, social responsibility, and community citizenship. Neither of these notable organizations include minimizing innovation, rewarding individuality, and setting financial performance targets in their mission statements.


               78. E
The managerial purpose for setting financial and strategic objectives such as those listed in Table 2.4 is to convert the strategic vision into specific performance targets. Well-stated objectives are quantifiable, or measurable, and contain a deadline for achievement.


               79. B
The importance of attaining financial objectives is intuitive. Without adequate profitability and financial strength, a company’s long-term health and ultimate survival is jeopardized. Furthermore, subpar earnings and a weak balance sheet alarm shareholders and creditors and put the jobs of senior executives at risk.


               80. D
Without adequate profitability and financial strength, a company’s long-term health and ultimate survival is jeopardized. Furthermore, subpar earnings and a weak balance sheet alarm shareholders and creditors and put the jobs of senior executives at risk.


               81. B
The balanced scorecard approach is a widely used method for balancing both strategic and financial objectives, tracking their achievement, and giving management a more complete and balanced view of how well an organization is performing.


               82. A
In contrast to strategic objectives, which are leading indicators of a company’s market standing and competitive vitality, a company’s financial objectives are really lagging indicators that reflect the results of past decisions and organizational activities.


               83. B
Long-term objectives serve as a barrier to an undue focus on short-term results by nearsighted management. When trade-offs have to be made between achieving long- and short-run objectives, long-run objectives should take precedence (unless the achievement of one or more short-run performance targets has unique importance).


               84. E
Well-stated objectives must be specific, quantifiable or measurable, and challenging, and must contain a deadline for achievement.


               85. B
Objective setting does not stop with the establishment of companywide performance targets but needs to be broken into performance targets for each of the organization’s separate businesses, product lines, functional departments, and individual work units. This is necessary to guide employees within various functional areas and operating levels via narrow objectives relating directly to their departmental activities, rather than broad organizational-level goals.


               86. A
Objective setting does not stop with the establishment of companywide performance targets but needs to be broken into performance targets for each of the organization’s separate businesses, product lines, functional departments, and individual work units. This is necessary to guide employees within various functional areas and operating levels via narrow objectives relating directly to their departmental activities, rather than broad organizational-level goals.


               87. D
Examples of well-stated financial objectives may include: an x percent increase in annual revenues; annual increases in after-tax profits of x percent; annual increases in earnings per share of x percent; annual dividend increases of x percent; profit margins of x percent; an x percent return on capital employed (ROCE) or return on shareholders’ equity (ROE) investment; increased shareholder value in the form of an upward-trending stock price; bond and credit ratings of x; internal cash flows of x dollars to fund new capital investment, and so forth.


               88. A
As stated in the text, the task of stitching a strategy together entails addressing a series of “hows”: how to attract and please customers, how to compete against rivals, how to position the company in the marketplace and capitalize on attractive opportunities to grow the business, how best to respond to changing economic and market conditions, how to manage each functional piece of the business, and how to achieve the company’s performance targets.


               89. A
Crafting a strategy is a collaborative team effort that includes managers in various positions and at various organizational levels. Crafting a strategy is rarely something only high-level executives perform.


               90. D
As shown in Figure 2.2, corporate strategy is orchestrated by the CEO and other senior executives, and establishes an overall game plan for managing a set of businesses in a diversified, multibusiness company. Corporate strategy addresses the questions of how to capture cross-business synergies, what businesses to hold or divest, which new markets to enter, and how to best enter new markets—by acquisition, by creation of a strategic alliance, or through internal development.


               91. A
Business strategy is primarily concerned with building competitive advantage in a single business unit of a diversified company or strengthening the market position of a nondiversified single-business company.


               92. D
To ascertain the exemplary objective-setting examples set by TOMS Shoes, Jet Blue, lululemon, and General Mills, see Concepts & Connections 2.2 and 2.3 in Chapter 2, as those contain well-stated organizational objectives in detail. The text makes clear that Yahoo!’s extreme stretch goals did not necessarily return the company to greatness under CEO Marissa Mayer.


               93. B
Functional-area strategies (as shown in Figure 2.2, “A Company’s Strategy-Making Hierarchy”) concern the detailed actions and game plan(s) related to particular functions or processes within a business.


               94. D
Functional-area strategies (as shown in Figure 2.2, “A Company Strategy-Making Hierarchy”) concern the detailed actions and game plan(s) related to particular functions or processes within a business. Particular functions or processes within a business may include research and development (R&D), production, procurement of inputs, sales and marketing, distribution, customer service, and finance.


               95. C
In single-business companies, the corporate and business levels of the strategy-making hierarchy merge into a single level—business strategy—because the strategy for the entire enterprise involves only one distinct business. So, a single-business company has three levels of strategy: business strategy, functional-area strategies, and operating strategies.


               96. C
Operating strategies concern the relatively narrow strategic initiatives and approaches for managing key operating units (plants, distribution centers, geographic units) and specific operating activities (for example, materials purchasing or Internet sales).


               97. C
Good strategy execution entails that managers pay careful attention to how key internal business processes are performed and see to it that employees’ efforts are directed toward the accomplishment of desired operational outcomes.


               98. B
A company’s direction, objectives, and strategy have to be revisited any time external or internal conditions warrant. A company’s vision, objectives, strategy, and approach to strategy execution are never final; managing strategy is an ongoing process, not an every-now-and-then task.


               99. E
A company’s direction, objectives, and strategy have to be revisited any time external or internal conditions warrant. A company’s vision, objectives, strategy, and approach to strategy execution are never final; managing strategy is an ongoing process, not an every-now-and-then task.


               100. E
Good strategy execution entails that managers pay careful attention to how key internal business processes are performed and see to it that employees’ efforts are directed toward the accomplishment of desired operational outcomes. The task of implementing and executing the strategy also necessitates an ongoing analysis of the efficiency and effectiveness of a company’s internal activities and a managerial awareness of new developments that might improve business processes.


               101. E
The task of implementing and executing the strategy necessitates an ongoing analysis of the efficiency and effectiveness of a company’s internal activities as well as a managerial awareness of new developments that might improve (or impede) business processes. Top-notch strategy execution entails vigilance: deciding when adjustments are needed and what adjustments to make.


               102. B
Managing the strategy execution process includes the following principal aspects: creating a strategy-supporting structure; staffing the organization to obtain needed skills and expertise; developing and strengthening strategy-supporting resources and capabilities; allocating ample resources to the activities critical to strategic success; ensuring that policies and procedures facilitate effective strategy execution; organizing the work effort along the lines of best practice; installing information and operating systems that enable company personnel to perform essential activities; motivating people and tying rewards directly to the achievement of performance objectives; creating a company culture conducive to successful strategy execution; and exerting the internal leadership needed to propel implementation forward.


               103. C
The process of crafting and executing a company’s strategy is an ongoing, continuous process consisting of five interrelated stages: (1) developing a strategic vision that charts the company’s long-term direction; (2) setting objectives for measuring the company’s performance and tracking its progress in moving in the intended long-term direction; (3) crafting a strategy for advancing the company along the path management has charted and achieving its performance objectives; (4) executing the chosen strategy efficiently and effectively; and (5) monitoring developments, evaluating performance, and initiating corrective adjustments in the company’s vision and mission statement, objectives, strategy, or approach to strategy execution in light of actual experience, changing conditions, new ideas, and new opportunities.


               104. B
A company’s financial performance measures are really lagging indicators that reflect the results of past decisions and organizational activities. But a company’s past or current financial performance is not a reliable indicator of its future prospects—poor financial performers often turn things around and do better, while good financial performers can fall upon hard times. The best and most reliable leading indicators of a company’s future financial performance and business prospects are strategic outcomes that indicate whether the company’s competitiveness and market position are stronger or weaker.


               105. B
The balanced scorecard is a widely used method for combining the use of both strategic and financial objectives, tracking their achievement, and giving management a more complete and balanced view of how well an organization is performing. Merely tracking a company’s financial performance overlooks the fact that what ultimately enables a company to deliver better financial results is the achievement of strategic objectives that improve its competitiveness and market strength. The two types of objectives included in the balanced scorecard are strategic (e.g., market share, customer retention, customer satisfaction, customer acquisition, new product introduction, reduction of product development cycles, etc.) and financial (e.g., annual percent increases in sales and earnings per share, returns on capital employed, increases in internal cash flows for investment, and improved credit ratings).


               106. B
A company needs to strike a balance between its pursuit of shareholder wealth maximization with its values, such as fair treatment, honor and integrity, ethical behavior, innovativeness, teamwork, a passion for top-notch quality or superior customer service, social responsibility, and community citizenship.


               107. A
See Figure 2.2. The text explains the difference between a business strategy and a corporate strategy. Business strategy is concerned with strengthening the market position, building competitive advantage, and improving the performance of a single line of business unit. Business strategy is primarily the responsibility of business unit heads, although corporate-level executives may well exert strong influence. Corporate strategy concerns how to improve the combined performance of the set of businesses the company has diversified into by capturing cross-business synergies and turning them into competitive advantage. It addresses the questions of what businesses to hold or divest, which new markets to enter, and how to best enter new markets (by acquisition, creation of a strategic alliance, or through internal development, for example). It is orchestrated by the CEO and other senior executives and establishes an overall strategy for managing a <em></em> set of businesses in a diversified, multibusiness company.


               108. E
Although senior managers have the lead responsibility for crafting and executing a company’s strategy, it is the duty of a company’s board of directors to exercise strong oversight and see that management performs the various tasks involved in each of the five stages of the strategy-making, strategy-executing process in a manner that best serves the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders. Glassman was subsequently forced out as CEO, in part due to his initial lack of response and later, his insensitive responses via Twitter. Glassman sold his gym business to a Colorado technology executive in late June 2020.


               109. A
In diversified companies like Alibaba Group, where multiple and sometimes strikingly different businesses have to be managed, crafting a full-fledged strategy involves four distinct types of strategic actions and initiatives. Each of these involves different facets of the company’s overall strategy—corporate, business, functional-area, and operating—and calls for the participation of different types of managers.


               110. C
The process of crafting and executing a company’s strategy is an ongoing, continuous process consisting of five interrelated stages: (1) developing a strategic vision that charts the company’s long-term direction; (2) setting objectives for measuring the company’s performance and tracking its progress in moving in the intended long-term direction; (3) crafting a strategy for advancing the company along the path management has charted and achieving its performance objectives; (4) executing the chosen strategy efficiently and effectively; and (5) monitoring developments, evaluating performance, and initiating corrective adjustments in the company’s vision and mission statement, objectives, strategy, or approach to strategy execution in light of actual experience, changing conditions, new ideas, and new opportunities. Strategy makers must make coordinated choices about the complete strategy landscape. Long-term competitive advantage requires consideration of the external environment and internal situation, the business model, competitive positioning, key implementation approaches, and resource development and deployment.


               111. C
Strictly speaking, the macro-environment excludes a company’s competitively valuable resources and capabilities and instead encompasses all of the relevant factors—political factors, economic conditions in the firm’s general environment, sociocultural forces, technological factors, environmental forces, and legal/regulatory factors—making up the broad environmental context in which a company operates. See Figure 3.1, The Components of a Company’s External Environment.


               112. C
See Figure 3.1. Six principal components—(1) political factors; (2) economic conditions in the firm’s general environment (local, country, regional, worldwide); (3) sociocultural forces; (4) technological factors; (5) environmental factors (concerning the natural environment); and (6) legal/regulatory conditions—constitute a company’s “macro-environment.” The homebuilding industry, in this example, is affected by such macro-influences as trends in household incomes and buying power, rules and regulations that make it easier/harder for homebuyers to obtain mortgages, changes in mortgage interest rates, shifting preferences of families for renting versus owning a home, and shifts in buyer preferences for homes of various sizes, styles, and price ranges. The distinctive competences of incumbent firms may be an internal factor, but it is not part of the macro-environment.


               113. C
The six principal components of the macro-environment as shown in Figure 3.1 are political, economic, sociocultural, technological, environmental (concerning the natural environment), and legal/regulatory. Rival firms are part of the immediate industry and competitive environment.


               114. C
The six principal components of the macro-environment are political, economic, sociocultural, technological, environmental (concerning the natural environment), and legal/regulatory. Rival firms are part of the immediate industry and competitive environment.


               115. D
The strength of both driving forces and competitive forces are actions in a company’s industry and competitive environment, whereas all of the other responses refer to characteristics of a company’s economic environment, as shown in Figure 3.1.


               116. C
The factors in a company’s environment having the biggest strategy-shaping impact typically pertain to the company’s immediate industry and competitive environment. Apple and Ford launching a global network of autonomous, driverless transportation vehicles on demand via a mobile app will compete directly with and probably cannibalize most other transportation businesses that remain reliant on human drivers.


               117. A
Political factors include political policies, including the extent to which a government intervenes in the economy. They include such matters as tax policy, fiscal policy, tariffs, the political climate, and the strength of institutions such as the federal banking system. Some political policies affect certain types of industries more than others. An example is energy policy, which affects energy producers and heavy users of energy more than other types of businesses.


               118. C
The six principal components of the macro-environment are political, economic, sociocultural, technological, environmental (concerning the natural environment), and legal/regulatory. Rival firms are part of the immediate industry and competitive environment.


               119. E
See Figure 3.2, The Five Forces Model of Competition. The character and strength of the competitive forces operating in an industry are never the same from one industry to another. The most powerful and widely used conceptual tool for diagnosing the principal competitive pressures in a market is the five forces framework.


               120. D
The five forces framework holds that competitive pressures on companies within an industry come from five sources. These include (1) competition from rival sellers, (2) competition from potential new entrants to the industry, (3) competition from producers of substitute products, (4) supplier bargaining power, and (5) customer bargaining power.


               121. A
See Figure 3.2. Industry driving forces are not among the five forces exerting competitive pressure on an industry.


               122. A
See Figure 3.2. The strongest of the five competitive forces is often the rivalry for buyer patronage among competing sellers of a product or service.


               123. B
When the collective impact of the five competitive forces is moderate to weak, an industry is competitively attractive in the sense that industry members can reasonably expect to earn good profits and a nice return on investment. The ideal competitive environment for earning superior profits is one in which both suppliers and customers are in weak bargaining positions, there are no good substitutes, high barriers block further entry, and rivalry among present sellers generates only moderate competitive pressures. Weak competition is the best of all possible worlds for companies with mediocre strategies and second-rate implementation because even they can expect a decent profit.


               124. B
As a rule, the strongest competitive forces determine the extent of the competitive pressure on industry profitability. All other things being equal and as a rule, the stronger the collective impact of the five competitive forces, the lower the combined profitability of industry participants—and this is particularly true of the saturated, mature pizza restaurant industry in comparison with the others listed, each of which have mitigated the power of some competitive forces to achieve above-average returns.


               125. E
See Figure 3.3. Rapid growth in buyer demand tends to weaken the bargaining power of buyers, and slower growth in buyer demand tends to strengthen the bargaining power of buyers. All of the other responses have no direct impact on buyer bargaining power.


               126. C
See Figure 3.3. High buyer switching costs tends to weaken the bargaining power of buyers; all of the other responses tend to increase buyer bargaining power.


               127. A
See Figure 3.3. The lower likelihood that buyers would integrate backward into the business of sellers tends to weaken the bargaining power of buyers; all of the other responses tend to increase buyer bargaining power.


               128. B
See Figure 3.3. A limited number of large sellers tends to weaken the bargaining power of buyers; all of the other responses tend to increase buyer bargaining power.


               129. A
See Figure 3.3. Buyer bargaining power tends to be weakest when: buyer demand is rising in relation to industry supply; the industry’s products are highly differentiated—as is surely the case for owners of new homes that require induction cooking appliances; buyers’ costs of switching to competing products are high; buyers are plentiful in number relative to the small number of industry sellers (which is primarily the case in the residential induction cooktop industry); buyers pose no or a very limited threat of integrating backward into the business of sellers; buyers are not well informed about the quality, prices, and costs of sellers; and new home buyers have a limited ability to postpone purchases.


               130. A
Figure 3.3 shows that buyer bargaining power is stronger when: buyer demand is weak in relation to industry supply; the industry’s products are standardized or undifferentiated; buyers’ costs of switching to competing products are low; buyers are large and few in number relative to the number of industry sellers; and/or buyers pose a credible threat of integrating backward into the business of sellers; and/or buyers are well informed about the quality, prices, and costs of sellers; and/or buyers have the ability to postpone purchases.


               131. A
See Figure 3.4. Generally speaking, when end-users are comfortable with purchasing substitutes, when the quality and performance of substitutes is comparable, and when user’s switching costs are low, the more intense are the competitive pressures posed by substitute products.


               132. B
See Figure 3.4. As a rule, the desirability of substitutes, their relative quality and performance, and the end-user’s switching costs tend to impact the competitive pressures posed by substitute products.


               133. D
See Figure 3.4. Complementors are the producers of complementary products or services, which are products or services that enhance the value of the focal firm’s products when they are used together. Hospitality businesses are in different industries and are not substitutes for wineries.


               134. B
See Figure 3.4. As a rule, the lower the desirability of substitutes or the lower their quality and performance, the higher the user’s switching costs. These factors tend to decrease the competitive pressures posed by substitute products.


               135. D
See Figure 3.5. When suppliers have stronger bargaining power, they can charge industry members higher prices (passing costs on to them) and limit opportunities to find better deals via switching.


               136. A
See Figure 3.5. When the number of suppliers of inputs is limited, suppliers tend to have stronger bargaining power and can charge industry members higher prices (passing costs on to them) and limit opportunities to find better deals via switching.


               137. E
See Figure 3.5. When inputs are in short supply, suppliers tend to have stronger bargaining power and can charge industry members higher prices (passing costs on to them) and limit opportunities to find better deals via switching.


               138. C
See Figure 3.5. All of the responses, except incumbents’ struggles to make good profits in a slow-growth demand market, tend to impact the bargaining leverage of suppliers.


               139. A
See Figure 3.5. Suppliers with strong bargaining power can erode industry profitability by charging industry members higher prices, passing costs on to them, and limiting their opportunities to find better deals via switching. That said, as a rule, suppliers have less bargaining leverage when their sales to a strategic partner constitute a big percentage of their total sales. In such cases, the well-being of suppliers is closely tied to the well-being of that major customer/partner.


               140. A
See Figure 3.5. Suppliers with strong bargaining power can erode industry profitability by charging industry members higher prices, passing costs on to them, and limiting their opportunities to find better deals via switching. Suppliers have less bargaining leverage when their sales to a strategic partner constitute a big percentage of their total sales. In such cases, the well-being of suppliers is closely tied to the well-being of that major customer/partner. When inputs are in short supply, suppliers tend to have stronger bargaining power, and can charge industry members higher prices (passing costs on to them) and limit opportunities to find better deals via switching.


               141. B
When the collective impact of the five competitive forces is moderate to weak, an industry is competitively attractive in the sense that industry members can reasonably expect to earn good profits and a nice return on investment. The ideal competitive environment for earning superior profits is one in which both suppliers and customers are in weak bargaining positions, there are no good substitutes, high barriers block further entry, and rivalry among present sellers generates only moderate competitive pressures. Weak competition is the best of all possible worlds for companies with mediocre strategies and second-rate implementation because even they can expect a decent profit.


               142. E
See Figure 3.6. All of the answer choices indicate an attractive industry to enter, except the expectation of earning attractive profits by newer entrants.


               143. B
See Figure 3.6. The most extreme case of a competitively attractive industry occurs when all five forces are producing moderate to weak competitive pressures: rivalry among sellers is modest, high entry barriers preclude new rivals from gaining a market foothold, competition from substitutes is moderate to weak, and neither suppliers nor buyers are able to exercise considerable leverage over incumbent firms.


               144. A
See Figure 3.6. All of the answer choices, except rapid market growth, deter new entrants; rapid market growth tends to attract new entrants.


               145. E
The strongest competitive pressures associated with potential entry threats come not from outsiders but from current industry participants looking for growth opportunities. Existing industry members are often strong candidates to enter market segments or geographic areas where they currently do not have a market presence.


               146. B
The strongest of the five competitive forces is nearly always the rivalry among competing sellers of a product or service.


               147. B
Rivalry decreases when buyer demand accelerates, buyers’ switching costs are high, and buyers do not have a proliferation of choices. In this case, sellers may find themselves with capacity shortages and/or inventory stock-outs. Excess demand conditions create a “sellers’ market,” decreasing competitive pressure on industry rivals, as shown in Figure 3.7.


               148. D
See Figure 3.7. All of the responses characterize the opposite of a potential “weapon” for battling rival and attracting buyers, except for product customization.


               149. C
See Figure 3.7. Rivalry is less in industries where there is growth in demand and rivals are more or less satisfied with their competitive and market share positions.


               150. D
See Figure 3.7. Rivalry is fierce in industries where there is slow growth in demand and one or more rivals is using price cuts or other tactics to undercut the competition.


               151. A
See Figure 3.7. Rivalry is stronger in industries where there is slow growth in demand, one or more rivals is dissatisfied with its market position, buyers have low switching costs, and the number of players is diminishing due to acquisition by firms outside the industry.


               152. D
As a rule, weak collective impact of the five competitive forces makes an industry more attractive and tends to raise the combined profitability of industry participants.


               153. A
As a rule, strong collective impact of the five competitive forces makes an industry more unattractive and lowers the combined profitability of industry participants.


               154. B
As a rule, the stronger the collective impact of the five competitive forces, the lower the combined profitability of industry participants.


               155. B
As a rule, the strongest competitive forces determine the extent of the competitive pressure on industry profitability. All other things being equal and as a rule, the stronger the collective impact of the five competitive forces, the lower the combined profitability of industry participants—and this is particularly true of the saturated, mature pizza restaurant industry in comparison with the others listed, each of which have mitigated the power of some competitive forces to achieve above-average returns.


               156. A
All other things being equal and as a rule, the weaker the collective impact of the five competitive forces, the higher the combined profitability of industry participants—and this is particularly true of the streaming video industry in comparison with the others listed, each of which face tremendous competitive pressures that dampen profits.


               157. E
See Table 3.2. Most drivers of industry and competitive change do not fall into one of the above categories, however, changes in an industry’s long-term growth rate are considered a driving force.


               158. D
Industry and competitive conditions change because forces are enticing or pressuring certain industry participants (competitors, customers, suppliers) to alter their actions in important ways. The most powerful of the change agents are called driving forces because they have the biggest influences in reshaping the industry landscape and altering competitive conditions.


               159. D
Driving-forces analysis consists of three steps: (1) identifying what the driving forces are; (2) assessing whether the drivers of change are, individually or collectively, acting to make the industry more or less attractive; and (3) determining what strategy changes are needed to prepare for the impact of the driving forces.


               160. A
Driving-forces analysis consists of three steps: (1) identifying what the driving forces are; (2) assessing whether the drivers of change are, individually or collectively, acting to make the industry more or less attractive; and (3) determining what strategy changes are needed to prepare for the impact of the driving forces.


               161. B
The real payoff of driving-forces analysis is to help managers understand what strategy changes are needed to prepare for the impacts of the driving forces.


               162. D
Most drivers of industry and competitive change fall into one of the above categories (see Table 3.2) but not competition from substitutes or collaborative alliances.


               163. C
Most drivers of industry and competitive change fall into one of the above categories (see Table 3.2) but not bargaining leverage or collaborative alliances.


               164. D
Most drivers of industry and competitive change fall into one of the above categories (see Table 3.2), but not collaborative alliances.


               165. B
An important part of driving-forces analysis is to determine whether the individual or collective impact of the driving forces will be to increase or decrease market demand, make competition more or less intense, and lead to higher or lower industry profitability.


               166. B
Globalization can be precipitated by such factors as the blossoming of consumer demand in developing countries, the availability of lower-cost foreign inputs, and the reduction of trade barriers, as has occurred recently in many parts of Latin America and Asia. The forces of globalization are sometimes such a strong driver that companies find it highly advantageous, if not necessary, to spread their operating reach into more and more country markets.


               167. A
Understanding which companies are strongly positioned and which are weakly positioned is an integral part of analyzing an industry’s competitive structure. The best technique for revealing the market positions of industry competitors is strategic group mapping.


               168. E
Strategic group maps are revealing in several respects. The most important has to do with identifying which industry members are close rivals and which are distant rivals. Firms in the same strategic group—in this instance, many local, independent pizza restaurants are the closest rivals; the next closest rivals, that is, chains such as Domino’s, Little Caesar’s, Papa John’s, Pizza Hut, and so on are in immediately adjacent groups. Often, firms in strategic groups that are far apart on the map, such as other quick-service restaurants that also happen to serve pizza among a larger array of menu offerings, such as Olive Garden, do not compete directly.


               169. A
Factors that need to be determined include: industry prospects for attractive profits, industry growth potential, power of competitive forces to squeeze industry profitability, the degree to which prevailing driving forces will impact profitability favorably or unfavorably, how well a company performs relative to the industry key success factors, and a company’s competitive position in relation to its rivals.


               170. E
Some strategic groups are more favorably positioned than others because they confront weaker competitive forces and/or because they are more favorably impacted by industry driving forces.


               171. B
Doing the necessary detective work can be time-consuming but scouting E.L.F. Beauty’s competitors in the cosmetics industry well enough to anticipate their next moves should allow its managers to prepare effective countermoves (perhaps even beating a rival to the punch) and to take rivals’ probable actions into account in crafting their own best course of action.


               172. E
Some strategic groups are more favorably positioned than others because they confront weaker competitive forces and/or because they are more favorably impacted by industry driving forces.


               173. A
Unless a company pays attention to the strategies and situations of competitors and has some inkling of what moves they will be making, it ends up flying blind into competitive battle. As in sports, scouting the business opposition is an essential part of game plan development.


               174. B
Studying competitors’ past behavior and preferences provides a valuable assist in anticipating what moves rivals are likely to make next and outmaneuvering them in the marketplace.


               175. C
The important factors on which to base a conclusion include the following:
   * how the company is being impacted by the state of the macro-environment
   * whether strong competitive forces are squeezing industry profitability to subpar levels
   * whether the presence of complementors and the possibility of cooperative actions improve the company’s prospects
   * whether industry profitability will be favorably or unfavorably affected by the prevailing driving forces
   * whether the company occupies a stronger market position than rivals
   * whether this is likely to change in the course of competitive interactions
   * how well the company’s strategy delivers on the industry key success factors


               176. E
Michael Porter’s Framework for Competitor Analysis points to four indicators of a rival’s likely strategic moves and countermoves. These include a rival’s current strategy, objectives, resources and capabilities, and assumptions about itself and the industry. A strategic profile of a rival that provides good clues to its behavioral proclivities can be constructed by characterizing the rival along these four dimensions.


               177. A
Key success factors are the strategy elements, product attributes, competitive capabilities, or intangible assets with the greatest impact on future success in the marketplace.


               178. C
An industry’s key success factors can usually be deduced through identifying the industry’s dominant characteristics, assessing the five competitive forces, considering the impacts of the driving forces, comparing the market positions of industry members, and forecasting the likely next moves of key rivals.


               179. B
Key success factors are the strategy elements, product attributes, competitive capabilities, or intangible assets with the greatest impact on future success in the marketplace. In addition, the answers to the following three questions help identify an industry’s key success factors: (1) On what basis do buyers of the industry’s product choose between the competing brands of sellers? That is, what product attributes are crucial? (2) Given the nature of the competitive forces prevailing in the marketplace, what resources and competitive capabilities does a company need to have to be competitively successful? (3) What shortcomings are almost certain to put a company at a significant competitive disadvantage?


               180. A
Among the marketing KSFs are: (1) breadth of product line and product selection; (2) a well-known and well-respected brand name; (3) fast, accurate technical assistance; (4) courteous, personalized customer service; (5) accurate filling of buyer orders (few back orders or mistakes); (6) customer guarantees and warranties (important in mail-order and online retailing, big-ticket purchases, and new-product introductions); and (7) clever advertising.


               181. B
Key success factors in manufacturing include: (1) ability to achieve scale economies and/or capture experience curve effects (important to achieving low production costs), (2) quality control know-how (important in industries where customers insist on product reliability), (3) high utilization of fixed assets (important in capital-intensive/high-fixed-cost industries), (4) access to attractive supplies of skilled labor, (5) high labor productivity (important for items with high labor content), (6) low-cost product design and engineering (reduces manufacturing costs), and (7) ability to manufacture or assemble products that are customized to buyer specifications.


               182. A
Factors that need to be determined include: industry prospects for attractive profits, industry growth potential, power of competitive forces to squeeze industry profitability, the degree to which prevailing driving forces will impact profitability favorably or unfavorably, how well a company performs relative to the industry key success factors, and a company’s competitive position in relation to its rivals.


               183. C
Factors that need to be determined to ascertain whether or not the food-truck industry offers good prospects for attractive profits include: industry prospects for attractive profits, industry growth potential, power of competitive forces to squeeze industry profitability, the degree to which prevailing driving forces will impact profitability favorably or unfavorably, how well a company performs relative to the industry key success factors, and a company’s competitive position in relation to its rivals.


               184. E
The final step in evaluating the industry and competitive environment is for company managers to determine if the industry offers a company strong prospects for attractive profits based on the following factors: industry growth potential, the power of competitive forces to squeeze industry profitability, the degree to which prevailing driving forces will impact profitability favorably or unfavorably, how the company performs the industry key success factors, and the company’s competitive position in relation to its rivals.


               185. D
The final step in evaluating the industry and competitive environment is to determine whether the industry presents the company with strong prospects for competitive success and attractive profits. Following are the important factors on which to base a conclusion:
   * how the company is being impacted by the state of the macro-environment
   * whether strong competitive forces are squeezing industry profitability to subpar levels
   * whether the presence of complimentary rivals and the possibility of cooperative actions improve the company’s prospects
   * whether industry profitability will be favorably or unfavorably affected by the prevailing driving forces
   * whether the company occupies a stronger market position than rivals
   * whether this is likely to change in the course of competitive interactions
   * how well the company’s strategy delivers on the industry key success factors


               186. E
The final step in evaluating the industry and competitive environment is to determine whether the industry presents the company with strong prospects for competitive success and attractive profits. Following are the important factors on which to base a conclusion:
   * how the company is being impacted by the state of the macro-environment
   * whether strong competitive forces are squeezing industry profitability to subpar levels
   * whether the presence of complimentary rivals and the possibility of cooperative actions improve the company’s prospects
   * whether industry profitability will be favorably or unfavorably affected by the prevailing driving forces
   * whether the company occupies a stronger market position than rivals
   * whether this is likely to change in the course of competitive interactions
   * how well the company’s strategy delivers on the industry key success factors


               187. D
The important factors on which to base a conclusion may include the following, but do not include the prospects for international expansion:
   * how the company is being impacted by the state of the macro-environment
   * whether strong competitive forces are squeezing industry profitability to subpar levels
   * whether the presence of complementors and the possibility of cooperative actions improve the company’s prospects
   * whether industry profitability will be favorably or unfavorably affected by the prevailing driving forces
   * whether the company occupies a stronger market position than rivals
   * whether this is likely to change during competitive interactions
   * how well the company’s strategy delivers on the industry key success factors


               188. D
Companies like Amazon Prime Video, Apple, Disney+, and Netflix(among others) have pursued a strategy of integrating backward into film and video content development and production to gain bargaining power over writers, actors, and studios. Backward integration has also enabled these video-streaming companies to reduce the threat of substitutes from movie theatres, cable television, and network television providers.


               189. C
PESTEL analysis is an acronym that serves as a reminder of the six principal components of the macro-environment: political, economic, sociocultural, technological, environmental (concerning the natural environment, not the business environment), and legal/regulatory as shown in Table 3.1. Societal shocks represent a class of macro-environmental forces that are not normally part of the PESTEL analysis because they occur unpredictably and irregularly. Societal shocks include terrorism (whether by domestic or foreign agents), civil war, foreign invasion or occupation, epidemics and pandemics that can affect different industries and companies to varying degrees, but they are much harder for companies to anticipate and prepare for because they often begin with little warning.


               190. E
PESTEL analysis, as shown by the terms listed in Table 3.1, is an acronym that serves as a reminder of the six principal components of the macro-environment: political, economic, sociocultural, technological, environmental (concerning the natural environment, not the business environment), and legal/regulatory. Societal shocks represent a class of macro-environmental forces that are not normally part of the PESTEL analysis because they occur unpredictably and irregularly. Societal shocks include terrorism (whether by domestic or foreign agents), civil war, foreign invasion or occupation, epidemics and pandemics that can affect different industries and companies to varying degrees, but they are much harder for companies to anticipate and prepare for because they often begin with little warning.


               191. E
The five forces framework shown in Figure 3.2 holds that competitive pressures on companies within an industry come from five sources. These include (1) competition from rival sellers, (2) competition from potential new entrants to the industry, (3) competition from producers of substitute products, (4) supplier bargaining power, and (5) customer bargaining power. While changes in local and state laws governing employment practices and minimum wages are likely to be a potent macro-environmental factor, these are not part and parcel of the five forces framework.


               192. C
The best indicator of how well a company’s strategy is working is whether the company is achieving its stated financial and strategic objectives, its financial performance is above the industry average, and it is gaining customers and increasing its market share.


               193. C
The best indicator of how well a company’s strategy is working is whether the company is achieving its stated financial and strategic objectives, its financial performance is above the industry average, and it is gaining customers and increasing its market share.


               194. C
The two best indicators of how well a company’s strategy is working are (1) whether the company is recording gains in financial strength and profitability and (2) whether the company’s competitive strength and market standing are improving.


               195. B
The best indicator of how well a company’s strategy is working is whether the company is achieving its stated financial and strategic objectives, its financial performance is above the industry average, and it is gaining customers and increasing its market share.


               196. B
It is not relevant whether Tesla Motors has a larger number of competitive assets than competitive liabilities or whether it has a superior quality product in order to reliably conclude that a company’s current strategy is working well.


               197. B
A company’s competitive approach requires a tight fit with a company’s internal situation and is strengthened when it exploits resources that are competitively valuable, rare, hard to copy, and not easily trumped by rivals’ substitute resources.


               198. D
The more difficult and more expensive it is to imitate a company’s resource or capability, the more likely that it can also provide a sustainable competitive advantage.


               199. E
A company’s resources and capabilities represent its competitive assets and are determinants of its competitiveness and ability to succeed in the marketplace. As shown in Table 4.1, a company’s resources are competitive assets that are owned or controlled by the company and may either be tangible resources such as plants, distribution centers, manufacturing equipment, patents, information systems, and capital reserves or creditworthiness, or intangible assets such as a well-known brand or a results-oriented organizational culture.


               200. A
VRIN tests can be a powerful tool for sizing up a company’s resources and capabilities. The competitive power of a resource or capability is measured by how many of four specific VRIN tests it can pass. These tests are referred to as theVRIN tests for sustainable competitive advantage— VRIN is a shorthand reminder standing for Valuable, Rare, Inimitable, and Nonsubstitutable. The first two tests determine whether a resource or capability can support a competitive advantage. The last two determine whether the competitive advantage can be sustained.


               201. D
A useful way to identify a company like Nestlé’s brand management resources, such as (1) the experience-based learning of the company’s brand managers, (2) the expertise of its marketing department, and (3) the company’s relationships with retailers in nearly 200 countries, is to categorize them as either tangible and intangible. See Table 4.1 for a complete list of valuable resources and competitive capabilities.


               202. B
See the VRIN tests for sustainable competitive advantage: is a resource or capability valuable, rare, inimitable, and nonsubstitutable?


               203. E
Cross-functional capabilities draw on a number of different kinds of resources and are multidimensional in nature—they spring from the effective collaboration among people with different types of expertise working in different organizational units. Warby Parker draws from its cross-functional design process to create its popular eyewear. Its design capabilities are not just due to its creative designers, but are the product of their capabilities in market research and engineering as well as their relations with suppliers and manufacturing companies.


               204. E
See the VRIN tests for sustainable competitive advantage: is a resource or capability valuable, rare, inimitable, and nonsubstitutable?


               205. A
See the VRIN tests for sustainable competitive advantage: is a resource or capability valuable, rare, inimitable, and nonsubstitutable?


               206. D
If management determines that the company doesn’t possess a resource that independently passes all four VRIN tests with high marks, it may have a bundle of resources that can pass the tests.


               207. D
Virtually all organizational capabilities are knowledge-based, residing in people and in a company’s intellectual capital, or in organizational processes and systems, which embody tacit knowledge.


               208. B
Companies lacking certain resources needed for competitive success in an industry may be able to adopt strategies directed at eroding or at least neutralizing the competitive potency of a particular rival’s resources and capabilities by identifying and developing substitute resources to accomplish the same purpose.


               209. E
The four tests of a resource’s competitive power are often referred to as the VRIN test, which asks if a resource is valuable, rare, inimitable, and nonsubstitutable.


               210. E
A competence or capability is the capacity of a firm to competently perform some internal activity.


               211. D
A resource is a competitive asset that is owned or controlled by a company; a capability is the capacity of a company to competently perform some internal activity. Capabilities are developed and enabled through the deployment of a company’s resources.


               212. D
A resource is a competitive asset that is owned or controlled by a company; a capability is the capacity of a company to competently perform some internal activity. Having higher earnings per share and a higher stock price than key rivals cannot be a good example of a company’s resources.


               213. B
A distinct capability (or distinctive competence) is the capacity of a company to competently perform some internal activity at a high level of proficiency.


               214. E
Refer to Table 4.1 for common types of tangible and intangible resources.


               215. C
The more difficult, expensive, time-consuming, and complex it is for a rival to imitate a company’s resource or capability, the more likely it is that resource or capability can provide a sustainable competitive advantage.


               216. E
Refer to Table 4.1 for common types of tangible and intangible resources.


               217. B
Refer to Table 4.1 for common types of tangible and intangible resources.


               218. B
A dynamic capability is an ongoing capacity of a company to modify its existing resources and capabilities or create new ones, such as upgrading its R&D resources to drive product innovation.


               219. A
A dynamic capability is the ability to modify, deepen, or reconfigure the company’s existing resources and capabilities in response to its changing environment or market opportunities. Petsmart’s ability to retain antiquated resources and capabilities is not an example of a company’s dynamic capability.


               220. D
Lack of a distinctive competence is considered an internal weakness or competitive liability; all of the other responses are examples of external threats. The chapter notes that Google failed in converting its technological resources and software innovation capabilities into success for Google Wallet, which incurred losses of more than $300 million before being abandoned in 2016. While these resources and capabilities have made Google the world’s number-one search engine, they proved to be less valuable in the mobile payments industry.


               221. D
A first-rate SWOT analysis provides the basis for crafting a strategy that capitalizes on the company’s strengths, aims squarely at capturing the company’s best opportunities, and defends against the threats to its well-being.


               222. A
A first-rate SWOT analysis should size up the textbook publisher’s internal strengths and competitive deficiencies, its market opportunities, and the external threats to its future well-being. Benchmarking the textbook publisher’s resource strengths and competitive capabilities against industry key success factors is accomplished via a competitive strength assessment, not by a SWOT analysis.


               223. D
A first-rate SWOT analysis sizes up a company’s internal strengths and competitive deficiencies, its market opportunities, and the external threats to its future well-being. The most important parts of a SWOT analysis are: (1) drawing conclusions from the SWOT listings about the company’s overall situation and (2) translating these conclusions into strategic actions to better match the company’s strategy to its strengths and market opportunities, correcting problematic weaknesses, and defending against worrisome external threats.


               224. A
See Table 4.2 for examples of resource strengths typically factored into a SWOT analysis. These include core competencies, competitive capabilities, and valuable intangible assets.


               225. E
Competitive weaknesses are those that that make the company vulnerable to rivals, hold down profitability, or disqualify it from pursuing an attractive opportunity.


               226. E
Competitive weaknesses are those that that make the company vulnerable to rivals, hold down profitability, or disqualify it from pursuing an attractive opportunity.


               227. A
The process of conducting a SWOT analysis is more than merely listing items under Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats. SWOT analysis essentially involves constructing a “strategic balance sheet” that analysts can use to size up the company’s resource strengths (competitive assets) and its resource weaknesses (competitive liabilities) as well as opportunities and threats in the company’s external environment.


               228. C
A company’s strategy should be aimed squarely at capturing those market opportunities that are most attractive and suited to the company’s collection of capabilities.


               229. C
See Table 4.2. How Grubhub can turn a core competence into a distinctive competence is not something that can be gleaned from conducting a SWOT analysis.


               230. D
A company’s strategy should be aimed squarely at capturing those market opportunities that are most attractive and suited to the company’s collection of capabilities.


               231. A
See Table 4.2. Lack of a distinctive competence is considered a weakness, not an external threat. All of the other responses are external threats.


               232. B
See Table 4.2. Lack of a well-known brand name is considered a weakness, not an external threat. All of the other responses are external threats.


               233. E
A first-rate SWOT analysis sizes up a company’s internal strengths and competitive deficiencies, its market opportunities, and the external threats to its future well-being.


               234. D
A first-rate SWOT analysis sizes up a company’s internal strengths and competitive deficiencies, its market opportunities, and the external threats to its future well-being. Simply listing a company’s strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats is not enough; the payoff from SWOT analysis comes from the conclusions about a company’s situation and the implications for strategy improvement that flow from the four lists.


               235. B
One of the most telling signs of whether a company’s business position is strong or precarious is whether its cost structure and customer value proposition are competitive with those of industry rivals.


               236. C
Two analytical tools are particularly useful in determining whether a company’s value proposition and costs are competitive: value chain analysis and benchmarking.


               237. B
A company’s value chain identifies the primary activities that can create customer value and related support activities.


               238. A
A company’s value chain identifies the primary activities that can create customer value and related support activities. These primary activities include: supply chain management, operations, distribution, sales and marketing, and customer service activities.


               239. C
A company’s value chain consists of the primary activities shown in Figure 4.1 that can create customer value as well as related support activities.


               240. C
With its focus on value-creating activities, the value chain is an ideal tool for examining how a company delivers on its customer value proposition. It permits a deep look at the company’s cost structure and ability to offer low prices.


               241. C
Activity-based costing is an accounting system that assigns a company’s expenses to whichever activity in a company’s value chain is responsible for creating the cost.


               242. E
Except for classified documents, all the others are recommended sources for collecting benchmarking information.


               243. A
Benchmarking entails comparing how different companies perform various value chain activities—how materials are purchased, how inventories are managed, how products are assembled, how customer orders are filled and shipped, and how maintenance is performed—and then making cross-company comparisons of the costs and effectiveness of these activities.


               244. E
See Figure 4.1. Two analytic tools are particularly useful in determining whether a company’s costs and customer value proposition are competitive: value chain analysis and benchmarking.


               245. A
See Figure 4.2 and company examples in the chapter. Benchmarking the costs of company activities against those of industry rivals provides hard evidence of whether a company is cost-competitive.


               246. A
A company’s value chain is embedded in a larger system of activities that includes the value chains of its suppliers and the value chains of whatever distribution channel allies it utilizes in getting its product or service to end users.


               247. A
Accurately assessing the competitiveness of a company’s cost structure and customer value proposition requires that company managers understand an industry’s entire value chain system for delivering a product or service to customers, not just the company’s own value chain, as shown in Figure 4.2.


               248. D
There are three main areas in a company’s overall value chain where important differences between firms in costs and value can occur: (1) a company’s own internal activities, (2) the suppliers’ part of the industry value chain, and (3) the forward channel portion of the industry chain.


               249. E
Ways to reduce costs of internally performed activities and improve cost competitiveness include: (1) implementing best practices, (2) revamping the value chain, (3) relocating high-cost activities, (4) outsourcing, (5) investing in productivity improvements, (6) finding ways to detour around the activities or items, (7) product redesign, and (8) reducing costs at the supplier or distributor level.


               250. C
Ways to reduce costs of internally performed activities and improve cost competitiveness include: (1) implementing best practices, (2) revamping the value chain, (3) relocating high-cost activities, (4) outsourcing, (5) investing in productivity improvements, (6) finding ways to detour around the activities or items, (7) product redesign, and (8) reducing costs at the supplier or distributor level.


               251. A
The correct answer for Peloton Interactive, negotiating more favorable prices and terms with its suppliers, could help to remedy a supplier-related cost disadvantage. The other answers represent several ways to combat a cost disadvantage in the forward channel, including (1) pressuring dealer-distributors and other forward channel allies to reduce their costs and markups; (2) working closely with forward channel allies to identify win–win opportunities to reduce costs, and (3) changing to a more economical distribution strategy, that is, integrating forward into company-owned retail outlets.


               252. A
Supplier-related cost disadvantages can be attacked by pressuring suppliers for lower prices, switching to lower-priced substitute inputs, and collaborating closely with suppliers to identify mutual cost-saving opportunities.


               253. E
Supplier-related cost disadvantages can be attacked by pressuring suppliers for lower prices, switching to lower-priced substitute inputs, and collaborating closely with suppliers to identify mutual cost-saving opportunities.


               254. B
There are three main ways to combat a cost disadvantage in the forward portion of the industry value chain: (1) pressure dealer-distributors and other forward channel allies to reduce their costs and markups; (2) work closely with forward channel allies to identify win–win opportunities to reduce costs; and (3) change to a more economical distribution strategy, that is, integrate forward into company-owned retail outlets.


               255. A
There are three main ways to combat a cost disadvantage in the forward channel: (1) pressure dealer-distributors and other forward channel allies to reduce their costs and markups; (2) work closely with forward channel allies to identify win–win opportunities to reduce costs, and (3) change to a more economical distribution strategy, that is, integrate forward into company-owned retail outlets. The incorrect answer refers to an option to remedy a supplier-related cost disadvantage.


               256. D
A company’s competitive strength scores pinpoint its strengths and weaknesses against rivals and point to offensive and defensive strategies capable of producing first-rate results.


               257. B
Competitive strength assessments provide useful conclusions about a company’s competitive situation. Ranking a company against its major rivals shows how a company compares against rivals, factor by factor (or capability by capability), thus revealing where it is strongest and weakest. Moreover, the overall competitive strength scores indicate whether or not a company is at a net competitive advantage or disadvantage against each rival.


               258. A
Competitive strength assessments provide useful conclusions about a company’s competitive situation. The ratings show how a company compares against rivals, factor by factor or capability by capability, thus revealing where it’s strongest and weakest. Moreover, the overall competitive strength scores indicate whether the company is at a net competitive advantage or disadvantage against each rival.


               259. B
Competitive strength scores provide useful conclusions about a company’s competitive situation, including the cost-effectiveness of its value chain, as shown in Table 4.3. Moreover, the strength rating provides guidance in all areas above, except regarding whether or not a company should shore up its weaknesses by adopting best practices and/or revamping the makeup of its value chain.


               260. B
The overall competitive strength scores for Peloton can indicate how all the different strength measures add up—whether this company is at a net overall competitive advantage or disadvantage against each of its rivals. The higher Peloton’s overall weighted strength rating, the stronger its overall competitiveness versus rivals. The bigger the difference between a Peloton’s overall weighted rating and the scores of lower-rated rivals, the greater is its implied net competitive advantage. Conversely, the bigger the difference between a company’s overall rating and the scores of higher-rated rivals, the greater its implied net competitive disadvantage.


               261. B
Compiling a “worry list” of problems and issues creates an agenda for managerial strategy making.


               262. D
The first task before deciding on a strategy and actions to take is to get a clear fix on exactly what industry and competitive challenges confront the company, which of the company’s internal weaknesses need fixing, and what specific problems merit front-burner attention by company managers. Pinpointing the precise things that management needs to worry about sets the agenda for deciding what actions to take next to improve the company’s performance and business outlook.


               263. E
As shown in Concepts & Connections 4.1, activity-based costing at Everlane is used to evaluate that company’s cost competitiveness and determine the costs of each primary and support activity comprising Everlane’s value chain and thereby reveal the nature and makeup of that company’s internal cost structure.


               264. D
A company’s cost competitiveness depends not only on the costs of internally performed activities (its own value chain) but also on costs in the value chains of its suppliers and distribution channel allies.


               265. B
The first task before deciding on a strategy and actions to take is to get a clear fix on exactly what industry and competitive challenges confront the company, which of the company’s internal weaknesses need fixing, and what specific problems merit front-burner attention by company managers. Pinpointing the precise things that management needs to worry about sets the agenda for deciding what actions to take next to improve the company’s performance and business outlook.


               266. B
A company’s competitive strategy deals exclusively with the specifics of management’s game plan for competing successfully—its specific efforts to please customers, strengthen its market position, counter the maneuvers of rivals, respond to shifting market conditions, and achieve a particular competitive advantage.


               267. B
The two biggest factors that distinguish one competitive strategy from another boil down to: (1) whether a company’s market target is broad or narrow and (2) whether the company is pursuing a competitive advantage linked to lower costs or differentiation, thereby delivering superior value to buyers.


               268. A
A company’s competitive strategy deals exclusively with the specifics of management’s game plan for competing successfully—its specific efforts to please customers, strengthen its market position, counter the maneuvers of rivals, respond to shifting market conditions, and achieve a particular competitive advantage.


               269. C
A company’s competitive strategy deals exclusively with the specifics of management’s game plan for competing successfully—in this case, Planet Fitness’s specific efforts to please its customers, strengthen its market position, counter the maneuvers of rivals, respond to shifting market conditions, and achieve a particular competitive advantage.


               270. C
The primary determinants of a company’s profitability are whether the company chooses to compete on cost advantage or product differentiation and the scope of its target market—narrow or broad. Defining a target market allows a company to create products to suit the target customers and generates the need to devise a strategy that is best suited for generating profitability for customers and the company alike.


               271. E
See Figure 5.1. The five generic types of competitive strategies are: (1) low-cost to broad markets, (2) low cost to focused markets, (3) differentiation to broad markets, (4) differentiation to focused markets or niches, and (5) a best-cost (or hybrid) approach.


               272. C
See Figure 5.1. Low-cost (broad or focused), differentiation (broad or focused) and a hybrid or best-cost provider are the five generic types of competitive strategies.


               273. C
As illustrated in Concepts and Connections 5.4,Trader Joe’s is an example of a company that uses a hybrid of a focused differentiation strategy and focused low-cost strategy, known as a best-cost provider strategy, by outcompeting rivals via upscale foods and superior service at value prices. See Figure 5.1. Low-cost (broad or focused), differentiation (broad or focused) and a hybrid or best-cost provider represent the remaining four out of the five generic types of competitive strategies.


               274. A
The two biggest factors that distinguish one competitive strategy from another are essentially: (1) whether a company’s market target is broad or narrow and (2) whether the company is pursuing a competitive advantage linked to lower costs or differentiation.


               275. D
A low-cost leader’s basis for competitive advantage is lower overall costs than competitors.


               276. B
A company has two options for translating a low-cost advantage over rivals into attractive profit performance. Option 1 is to use the lower-cost edge to underprice competitors and attract price-sensitive buyers in great enough numbers to increase total profits. Option 2 is to maintain the present price (refrain from price-cutting), be content with the present market share, and use the lower-cost edge to earn a higher profit margin on each unit sold, thereby raising the firm’s total profits and overall return on investment.


               277. A
Success in achieving a low-cost edge over rivals comes from eliminating and/or curbing “nonessential” activities and/or bypassing some cost-producing activities.


               278. D
To achieve a low-cost edge over rivals, a firm’s cumulative costs across its overall value chain must be lower than competitors’ cumulative costs. Success in achieving a low-cost edge over rivals comes from eliminating and/or curbing “nonessential” activities and/or bypassing some cost-producing activities; for example, out-managing rivals in performing essential activities and achieving efficiencies in supply chain management and scale economies from full capacity utilization.


               279. C
See important cost drivers in a company’s value chain as shown in Figure 5.2. Success in achieving a low-cost edge over rivals comes from eliminating and/or curbing “nonessential” activities and/or bypassing some cost-producing activities; for example, out-managing rivals in performing essential activities and achieving efficiencies in supply chain management and scale economies from full capacity utilization.


               280. A
The fast-food restaurant is using just-in-time inventory method to reduce supply chain inefficiency and improve its capacity utilization; the products are now made-to-order, thereby reducing waste.


               281. C
As noted in the chapter, and depicted in Figure 5.2, activities central to BASF’s low-cost generic strategy may include: collaborating with suppliers to streamline the ordering and purchasing process, to reduce inventory carrying costs via just-in-time inventory practices, to economize on shipping and materials handling, and to ferret out other cost-saving opportunities is a much-used approach to cost reduction. BASF is thus a company with a distinctive competence in cost-efficient supply chain management, essential to achieving a sizeable cost advantage over less adept rivals. All of the other possible responses are inimical to a low-cost generic strategy, although increasing marketing and brand-building activities may be suitable for a differentiation strategy.


               282. D
A low-cost provider strategy works well when: (1) industry newcomers use low introductory price to attract buyers and build a customer base, (2) the products of rival sellers are essentially identical and/or are readily available from several sellers, (3) commodity-like products and/or ample supplies set the stage for lively price competition, and (4) buyers incur low costs in switching from one seller/brand to another. In such markets, it is the less-efficient, higher-cost companies that are most vulnerable.


               283. E
A low-cost provider strategy works well when: (1) industry newcomers use low introductory price to attract buyers and build a customer base, (2) the products of rival sellers are essentially identical and/or are readily available from several sellers, (3) commodity-like products and/or ample supplies set the stage for lively price competition, and (4) buyers incur low costs in switching from one seller/brand to another. In such markets, it is the less-efficient, higher-cost companies that are most vulnerable. Changes in competitor power are not the impetus for a low-cost provider strategy.


               284. D
A low-cost provider strategy does not work well when buyers have varying needs and special requirements, raising the costs of switching from one seller to another.


               285. D
Relying on an approach to reduce costs that can be easily copied by rivals is one of the pitfalls to avoid while pursuing a low-cost strategy. If rivals find it relatively easy or inexpensive to imitate the leader’s low-cost methods, then the leader’s advantage will be too short-lived to yield a valuable edge in the marketplace.


               286. C
A low-cost provider strategy works well when the products of rival sellers are essentially identical and are readily available from several sellers. Commodity-like products and/or ample supplies set the stage for lively price competition; in such markets, it is the less-efficient, higher-cost companies that are most vulnerable.


               287. B
Perhaps the biggest pitfall of a low-cost provider strategy is getting carried away with overly aggressive price-cutting and ending up with lower, rather than higher, profitability. A second big pitfall is relying on an approach to reduce costs that can be easily copied by rivals. A third pitfall is becoming too fixated on cost reduction.


               288. D
See Figure 5.2. Cost-cutting approaches that support Ikea’s low-cost strategy and demonstrate an effective use of the cost drivers include using lower-cost inputs wherever doing so will not entail too great a sacrifice in quality; taking full advantage of experience- and learning-curve effects; using the company’s bargaining power vis-à-vis suppliers or others in the value chain system, and being alert to the cost advantages of outsourcing and vertical integration. All of the other tactics mentioned are routes to achieving value via a broad differentiation strategy.


               289. A
See Concepts and Connections 5.1. When the differences between product attributes or brands do not matter much to buyers, buyers are nearly always sensitive to price differences, and industry-leading companies tend to be those with the lowest-priced brands. With common user requirements, a standardized product can satisfy buyers’ needs, in which case low price, not features or quality, becomes the dominant factor in causing buyers to choose one seller’s product over another’s.


               290. D
See Concepts and Connections 5.1. For a company to do a more cost-efficient job of managing its value chain than rivals, managers must diligently search out cost-saving opportunities in every part of the value chain. No activity can escape cost-saving scrutiny, and all company personnel must be expected to use their talents and ingenuity to come up with innovative and effective ways to keep costs down. Vanguard’s low-cost strategy has been so successful that industry experts now refer to The Vanguard Effect. This refers to the pressure that this investment management giant has put on competitors to lower their fees in order to compete with Vanguard’s low-cost value proposition.


               291. D
Successful differentiation allows a firm to: (1) command a premium price, (2) increase unit sales (because additional buyers are won over by the differentiating features), and/or (3) gain buyer loyalty to its brand (because some buyers are strongly attracted to the differentiating features and bond with the company and its products).


               292. B
Ways that managers can enhance differentiation based on value drivers include: striving to create superior product features, design, and performance; improving customer service or add additional services; pursuing production-related R&D activities; and investing in innovation and technological advances.


               293. A
Successful product differentiation requires careful study to determine what attributes buyers find appealing, valuable, and worth paying for. Then the company must incorporate these desirable features into its product or service to clearly set itself apart from rivals lacking those attributes. A differentiation strategy calls for a customer value proposition that is unique.


               294. E
When striving to achieve a competitive advantage via differentiation, superior value can be delivered by signaling the value of the company’s product offering to buyers. As shown in the Gem X example, signals of value include exclusivity, a high price (in instances where high price implies high quality and performance), more appealing or fancier packaging than competing products, ad or website content that emphasizes a product’s standout attributes, the quality of brochures and sales presentations, and the luxuriousness and ambience of a seller’s facilities (important for high-end retailers and for offices or other facilities frequented by customers).


               295. B
Among these choices, a broad differentiation strategy generally works best for companies like Prada, a high fashion design firm which, like Gucci, can command a high-price premium for its products. To succeed with a broad differentiation strategy like Prada’s, at least one of the following conditions must be met: (1) buyer needs and uses of the product are diverse; (2) there are many ways to differentiate the product or service that have value to buyers; (3) few rival firms are following a similar differentiation approach; or (4) technological change is fast-paced and competition revolves around rapidly evolving product features. Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NA is pursuing a low-cost strategy. Canada Goose is pursuing a focused differentiation niche strategy. Clinícas del Azúcar is pursuing a focused low-cost strategy. Vanguard is pursuing a low-cost strategy.


               296. E
To achieve product differentiation, a company must incorporate desirable features into its product or service to clearly set itself apart from rivals lacking attributes, as shown in the approach taken by Domino’s Pizza. A differentiation strategy, like Domino’s Pizza’s, calls for a customer value proposition that is unique. The strategy achieves its aim when an attractively large number of buyers find the customer value proposition appealing, becoming strongly attached to a company’s differentiated attributes.


               297. E
See Figure 5.3. These include: high-quality inputs for luxury or prestige products, innovation and technological advances, superior product features, production-related R&D investments, continuous quality improvement, improving skills of personnel, marketing and brand-building, and enhanced customer service. Investing in managerial productivity and enjoying experience curve effects are more likely associated with a low-cost provider strategy than with a differentiation strategy.


               298. A
Easy-to-copy differentiating features cannot produce sustainable competitive advantage; differentiation based on hard-to-copy competencies and capabilities tends to be more sustainable.


               299. E
Easy-to-copy differentiating features cannot produce sustainable competitive advantage; differentiation based on hard-to-copy competencies and capabilities tends to be more sustainable.


               300. E
A value driver in support of a differentiation strategy entails seeking out high-quality inputs. Input quality can ultimately spill over to affect the performance or quality of the company’s end product or service.


               301. E
Differentiation strategies tend to work best when (1) buyer needs and uses of the product are diverse, (2) there are many ways to differentiate the product or service that have value to buyers, (3) few rival firms are following a similar differentiation approach, and (4) technological change is fast-paced and competition revolves around rapidly evolving product features.


               302. E
While a successful differentiation strategy must offer value in ways unmatched by rivals, a big issue in crafting a differentiation strategy is deciding what is valuable to customers. This can be accomplished in three ways: (1) include product attributes and user features that lower the buyer’s costs, (2) incorporate tangible features that improve product performance, or (3) incorporate intangible features that enhance buyer satisfaction in noneconomic ways.


               303. C
See Figure 5.3. These opportunities include: high-quality inputs, innovation and technological advances, superior product features, production-related R&D investments, continuous quality improvement, improving skills of personnel, marketing and brand-building, and enhanced customer service.


               304. E
Incorporating important tangible features increases customer satisfaction with the product, such as product specifications, functions, and styling. This can be accomplished by including attributes that (1) add functionality, (2) enhance the design, (3) save time for the user, (4) are more reliable, or (5) make the product cleaner, safer, quieter, simpler to use, more portable, more convenient, or longer-lasting than a rival brand.


               305. A
Differentiation strategies tend to work best when: (1) buyer needs and uses of the product are diverse, (2) there are many ways to differentiate the product or service that have value to buyers, (3) few rival firms are following a similar differentiation approach, and (4) technological change is fast-paced and competition revolves around rapidly evolving product features.


               306. D
Differentiation can be based on tangible or intangible features and attributes. Tesla’s ability to appeal to environmentally conscious and performance-minded motorists allowed the Model Y to enter the Top 20 best-selling automobile list in 2021 with sales nearly exceeding that of that of the Honda Accord and Jeep Wrangler. All of the other responses represent tactics relevant to a low-cost provider strategy.


               307. E
Differentiation strategies tend to work best when: (1) buyer needs and uses of the product are diverse, (2) there are many ways to differentiate the product or service that have value to buyers, (3) few rival firms are following a similar differentiation approach, and (4) technological change is fast-paced and competition revolves around rapidly evolving product features.


               308. B
Differentiation strategies tend to work best when: (1) buyer needs and uses of the product are diverse, (2) there are many ways to differentiate the product or service that have value to buyers, (3) few rival firms are following a similar differentiation approach, and (4) technological change is fast-paced and competition revolves around rapidly evolving product features.


               309. C
A low-cost provider strategy can always defeat a differentiation strategy when buyers are homogeneous in their needs, are generally satisfied with a basic product, and don’t think “extra” attributes are worth a higher price.


               310. C
Over-differentiating and over-charging are fatal differentiation mistakes. A low-cost provider can defeat a differentiator when customers are basically satisfied with a product or service and don’t think extra bells and whistles merit a premium price.


               311. E
Rapid imitation means that no rival achieves differentiation because whenever one firm introduces some value-creating aspect that strikes the fancy of buyers, fast-following copycats quickly reestablish parity. This is why a firm must seek out sources of value creation that are time-consuming or burdensome for rivals to match if it hopes to use differentiation to win a sustainable competitive edge.


               312. B
Differentiation strategies can fail for any of several reasons. A differentiation strategy keyed to product or service attributes that are easily and quickly copied is always suspicious. Differentiation strategies can also falter when buyers see little value in the unique attributes of a company’s product. Over-differentiating so that product quality or service levels exceed buyers’ needs, trying to charge too high a price premium, and not striving to open up meaningful gaps in quality, service, or performance features vis-à-vis the products of rivals are other pitfalls.


               313. B
What sets focused strategies apart from low-cost leadership or broad differentiation strategies is a concentration on a narrow piece of the total market.


               314. B
The advantages of focusing a company’s entire competitive effort on a single market niche are considerable, especially for smaller and medium-sized companies that may lack the scale (e.g., breadth and depth of resources) to tackle going after a national customer base with a “something for everyone” lineup of models, styles, and product selection.


               315. E
A focused strategy based on low cost aims at securing a competitive advantage by serving buyers in the target market niche at a lower cost and a lower price than rivals.


               316. C
The only real difference between a low-cost provider strategy and a focused low-cost strategy is the size of the buyer group to which a company is appealing.


               317. C
Focused differentiation strategies are keyed to offering carefully designed products or services to appeal to the unique preferences and needs of a narrow, well-defined group of buyers (as opposed to a broad differentiation strategy aimed at many buyer groups and market segments).


               318. B
A risk of employing a focused strategy is the potential for the preferences and needs of niche members to shift over time toward the product attributes desired by the majority of buyers. An erosion of the differences across buyer segments lowers entry barriers into a focuser’s market niche and provides an open invitation for rivals in adjacent segments to begin competing for the focuser’s customers. Fortunately for Canada Goose, as shown in Concepts & Connections 5.3, while other luxury winter outerwear brands like Moncler are priced similarly, no competitor’s products fulfill the promise of handling harsh winter weather quite like a Canada Goose “Made in Canada” parka. The Canadian heritage, use of down sourced from rural Canada, real coyote fur (humanely trapped), and promise to provide warmth in sub-25°F temperatures have enabled Canada Goose to break away from the pack when it comes to selling parkas. The company’s distinctly Canadian product has made it a hit among buyers, which is reflected in the willingness to pay a steep premium for extremely high-quality and warm winter outerwear.


               319. B
What sets focused (or market niche) strategies apart from low-cost leadership or broad differentiation strategies is a concentration on a narrow piece of the total market. The targeted segment, or niche, can be defined by geographic uniqueness or by special product attributes that appeal only to niche members. This strategy is most attractive when (1) the target market niche is big enough to be profitable and offers good growth potential; (2) industry leaders have chosen not to compete in the niche—focusers can avoid battling head-to-head against the industry’s biggest and strongest competitors; (3) it is costly or difficult for multi-segment competitors to meet the specialized needs of niche buyers and at the same time satisfy the expectations of mainstream customers; (4) the industry has many different niches and segments, thereby allowing a focuser to pick a niche suited to its resource strengths and capabilities; or (5) few, if any, rivals are attempting to specialize in the same target segment.


               320. A
Cost drivers are factors that have a strong effect on the cost of a company’s value chain activities and ability to become a low-cost provider, whereas uniqueness drivers are value chain activities or factors that can have a strong impact on customer value and create differentiation. Cost drivers include (1) striving to capture all available economies of scale, (2) taking full advantage of experience and learning-curve effects, (3) trying to operate facilities at full capacity, (4)  substituting lower-cost inputs whenever there’s little or no sacrifice in product quality or product performance, (5) employing advanced production technology and process design to improve overall efficiency, (6) using communication systems and information technology to achieve operating efficiencies; (7) using the company’s bargaining power vis-à-vis suppliers to gain concessions, (8) being alert to the cost advantages of outsourcing and vertical integration, and (9) pursuing ways to boost labor productivity and lower overall compensation costs. Uniqueness drivers, on the other hand, include such factors as (1) high-quality inputs; (2) innovation and technological advances; (3) superior product features; (4) production-related R&D investments; (5) continuous quality improvement; (6) improving skills of personnel, marketing and brand-building; and (7) enhanced customer service.


               321. C
For all types of generic strategies, success in sustaining the competitive edge depends on having resources and capabilities that rivals have trouble duplicating and for which there are no good substitutes.


               322. A
When a company can incorporate appealing features, good-to-excellent product performance or quality, or more satisfying customer service into its product offering at a lower cost than rivals, then it enjoys “best-cost” status: it is the low-cost provider of a product or service with upscale attributes. A best-cost provider can use its low-cost advantage to underprice rivals whose products or services have similar upscale attributes and still earn attractive profits.


               323. A
Companies pursuing best-cost strategies give customers more value for the money by satisfying buyer desires for appealing features/performance/quality/service at a lower cost than rivals and by charging a lower price for these attributes compared to rivals with similar-caliber product offerings.


               324. B
For a best-cost provider strategy to be successful, a company must have the capability to incorporate attractive or upscale attributes at a lower cost than rivals. This capability is contingent on: (1) a superior value chain configuration that eliminates or minimizes activities that do not add value, (2) unmatched efficiency in managing essential value chain activities, and (3) core competencies that allow differentiating attributes to be incorporated at a low cost.


               325. A
Companies pursuing best-cost strategies aim squarely at the sometimes-great mass of value-conscious buyers looking for a good-to-very-good product or service at an economical price.


               326. E
Success in sustaining a best-cost strategy requires that a company like Lexus possess the resources and capabilities to incorporate upscale product or service attributes at a lower cost than rivals, which implies the ability to profitably offer the buyer more value for the money.


               327. B
A company’s biggest vulnerability in employing a best-cost provider strategy is not having the requisite core competencies and efficiencies in managing value chain activities to support the addition of differentiating features without significantly increasing costs. A company with a modest degree of differentiation and no real cost advantage will most likely find itself squeezed between the firms using low-cost strategies and those using differentiation strategies.


               328. B
A best-cost provider strategy works best in markets where product differentiation is the norm and an attractively large number of value-conscious buyers can be induced to purchase midrange products rather than cheap, basic products or expensive, top-of-the-line products. A best-cost provider needs to position itself near the middle of the market with either a medium-quality product at a below-average price or a high-quality product at an average or slightly higher price.


               329. A
To be successful, a best-cost provider must achieve significantly lower costs in providing upscale features so that it can outcompete high-end differentiators on the basis of a significantly lower price. Likewise, it must offer buyers significantly better product attributes to justify a price above what low-cost leaders are charging. In other words, it must offer buyers a more attractive customer value proposition.


               330. E
The principal offensive strategy options include: (1) offering an equally good or better product at a lower price; (2) leapfrogging competitors by being the first to market with next-generation technology or products; (3) pursuing continuous product innovation to draw sales and market share away from less innovative rivals; (4) pursuing disruptive product innovations to create new markets; (5) adopting and improving on the good ideas of other companies; (6) using hit-and-run or guerrilla warfare tactics to grab sales and market share from complacent or distracted rivals; and (7) launching a preemptive strike to capture a rare opportunity or secure an industry’s limited resources. Blocking the avenues open to challengers is considered a defensive strategy.


               331. E
A blue-ocean strategy seeks to gain a dramatic and durable competitive advantage by abandoning efforts to beat out competitors in existing markets and, instead, inventing a new market segment that renders existing competitors irrelevant and allows a company to create and capture altogether new demand. Blue-ocean strategies provide a company with a great opportunity in the short run. “Blue ocean” is a market space where the industry does not really exist yet, is untainted by competition, and offers wide-open opportunity for profitable and rapid growth if a company can create new demand with a new type of product offering.


               332. C
The offensive moves that these four companies pursue incorporate: (1) focusing relentlessly on building competitive advantage and then striving to convert it into a sustainable advantage, (2) applying resources where rivals are least able to defend themselves, (3) employing the element of surprise as opposed to doing what rivals expect and are prepared for, and (4) displaying a capacity for swift and decisive actions to overwhelm rivals. Pursuing a market share leadership strategy is not among those moves.


               333. C
The principal offensive strategy options include pursuing continuous product innovation to draw sales and market share away from less innovative rivals. All of the other choices are not considered offensive strategies.


               334. E
Guerrilla offensives are surprising moves that are particularly well suited to small or medium-sized challengers that have neither the resources nor the market visibility to mount a full-fledged attack on industry leaders.


               335. B
By definition, a preemptive strike by a challenger means moving first to secure advantageous competitive assets that rivals cannot readily match or duplicate.


               336. A
Disruptive innovation to create new markets involves perfecting a new product with a few trial users and then quickly rolling it out to the whole market in an attempt to get many buyers to embrace an altogether new and better value proposition quickly. While this strategy can be riskier and incur greater cost than a strategy of continuous innovation, it can be a game changer if successful. Examples include online universities, Bumble (a dating site where women make the first move), Venmo (digital wallet), Apple Music, CampusBookRentals, and Waymo (Alphabet’s self-driving tech company).


               337. D
Etsy is prominently mentioned in the chapter as an exemplar of using a blue-ocean strategy, one that seeks to gain a dramatic and durable competitive advantage by inventing a new industry or distinctive market segment that renders existing competitors largely irrelevant and allows a company to create and capture altogether new demand. All of the other companies mentioned have deployed offensive strategies of one kind or another, but none use a blue-ocean strategy.


               338. D
A blue-ocean strategy seeks to gain a dramatic and durable competitive advantage by abandoning efforts to beat out competitors in existing markets and, instead, inventing a new industry or distinctive market segment that renders existing competitors largely irrelevant and allows a company to create and capture altogether new demand.


               339. D
A blue-ocean strategy seeks to gain a dramatic and durable competitive advantage by inventing a new industry or distinctive market segment that renders existing competitors largely irrelevant and allows a company to create and capture altogether new demand.


               340. B
A blue-ocean strategy seeks to gain a dramatic and durable competitive advantage by inventing a new industry or distinctive market segment that renders existing competitors largely irrelevant and allows a company to create and capture altogether new demand. A notable example of such blue-ocean market space is the luxury flash sale industry that Gilt Groupe created and now dominates. Other companies that have created blue-ocean market spaces include Starbucks, FedEx, and Cirque du Soleil in live entertainment.


               341. A
See Concepts and Connections 6.1. Etsy thrives in what was initially uncontested competitive space, also known as blue oceans. The principal offensive strategy options include: (1) offering an equally good or better product at a lower price; (2) leapfrogging competitors by being the first to market with next-generation technology or products; (3) pursuing continuous product innovation to draw sales and market share away from less innovative rivals; (4) pursuing disruptive product innovations to create new markets; (5) adopting and improving on the good ideas of other companies; (6) using hit-and-run or guerrilla warfare tactics to grab sales and market share from complacent or distracted rivals; and (7) launching a preemptive strike to capture a rare opportunity or secure an industry’s limited resources. Blocking the avenues open to challengers is considered a defensive strategy.


               342. A
As stated in the chapter, Eero got its whole home mesh WiFi system to market nearly one year before Linksys and Netgear developed competing systems, helping Eero to build a sizable market share and develop a reputation for cutting-edge innovation in WiFi systems. The other companies listed have instead pursued disruptive innovation, which involves perfecting new products or services that offer an altogether new and better value proposition to their customers.


               343. B
Tinder pioneered the wiping phenomenon, thereby pursuing a first-mover strategy. There are five conditions in which first-mover advantages are most likely to arise: (1) when pioneering helps build a firm’s reputation and creates strong brand loyalty; (2) when a first mover’s customers will thereafter face significant switching costs; (3) when property rights protections thwart rapid imitation of the initial move; (4) when an early lead enables the first mover to move down the learning curve ahead of rivals; and (5) when a first mover can set the technical standard for the industry.


               344. B
The purposes of defensive strategies are to lower the risk of being attacked, weaken the impact of any attack that occurs, and influence challengers to aim their efforts at other rivals.


               345. A
In the case of Zoom, there were tremendous advantages to being an adept follower rather than a first mover in online video conferencing. Late-mover advantages (or first-mover disadvantages) tend to arise the following situations: (1) when the costs of pioneering are high relative to the benefits accrued, and imitative followers can achieve similar benefits with far lower costs; (2) when an innovator’s products are somewhat primitive and do not live up to buyer expectations, thus allowing a follower with better-performing products to win disenchanted buyers away from the leader; (3) when rapid market evolution (due to fast-paced changes in either technology or buyer needs) gives second movers the opening to leapfrog a first mover’s products with more attractive next-version products; (4) when market uncertainties make it difficult to ascertain what will eventually succeed, allowing late movers to wait until these needs are clarified; and (5) when customer loyalty to the pioneer is low, and a first mover’s skills, know-how, and actions are easily copied or even surpassed.


               346. E
Although the purposes of defensive strategies are to lower the risk of being attacked, weaken the impact of any attack that occurs, and influence challengers to aim their efforts at other rivals, challenging struggling runner-up firms that are on the verge of going under is an example of an offensive strategy.


               347. E
The most frequently employed approach to defending a company’s present position involves actions that restrict a challenger’s options for initiating a competitive attack. There are numerous obstacles that can be put in the path of would-be challengers. A defender can introduce new features, add new models, or broaden its product line to close off gaps and vacant niches to opportunity-seeking challengers. It can thwart rivals’ efforts to attack with a lower price by maintaining its own lineup of economy-priced options. It can discourage buyers from trying competitors’ brands by lengthening warranties, making early announcements about impending new products or price changes, offering free training and support services, or providing coupons and sample giveaways to buyers most prone to experiment. It can induce potential buyers to reconsider switching. It can challenge the quality or safety of rivals’ products. Finally, a defender can grant volume discounts or better financing terms to dealers and distributors to discourage them from experimenting with other suppliers, or it can convince them to handle its product line exclusively and force competitors to use other distribution outlets.


               348. E
Signals to would-be challengers can be given by publicly announcing management’s commitment to maintaining the firm’s present market share, publicly committing the company to a policy of matching competitors’ terms or prices, maintaining a war chest of cash and marketable securities, or making an occasional strong counterresponse to the moves of weak competitors to enhance the firm’s image as a tough defender.


               349. E
Being first to initiate a strategic move can have a high payoff for a company when: (1) pioneering helps build a firm’s image and reputation with buyers; (2) early commitments to new technologies, new-style components, new or emerging distribution channels, and so on, can produce an absolute cot advantage over rivals; (3) first-time customers remain strongly loyal to pioneering firms in making repeat purchases; and (4) moving first constitutes a preemptive strike, making imitation extra hard or unlikely. It is illogical to expect that there are high payoffs when pioneering leadership is costlier than followership.


               350. E
When rapid market evolution occurs, often involving furious technological change or product innovation, a first mover may become vulnerable to next-generation technology or products. Markets can be slow to accept the innovative product offering of a first mover, in which case a fast follower with substantial resources and marketing muscle can leapfrog a first mover.


               351. B
In certain circumstances there are advantages to being an adept follower rather than a first mover. Late-mover advantages (or first-mover disadvantages) arise in the following five instances: (1) when the costs of pioneering are high relative to the benefits accrued and imitative followers can achieve similar benefits with far lower costs; (2) when an innovator’s products are somewhat primitive and do not live up to buyer expectations, thus allowing a follower with better-performing products to win disenchanted buyers away from the leader; (3) when rapid market evolution (due to fast-paced changes in either technology or buyer needs) gives second movers the opening to leapfrog a first mover’s products with more attractive next-version products; (4) when market uncertainties make it difficult to ascertain what will eventually succeed, allowing late movers to wait until these needs are clarified, and (5) when customer loyalty to the pioneer is low and a first mover’s skills, know-how, and actions are easily copied or even surpassed.


               352. E
Any company that seeks competitive advantage by being a first mover thus needs to ask some hard questions:
   * Does market takeoff depend on the development of complementary products or services that currently are not available?
   * Is new infrastructure required before buyer demand can surge?
   * Will buyers need to learn new skills or adopt new behaviors? Will buyers encounter high switching costs?
   * Are there influential competitors in a position to delay or derail the efforts of a first mover?
When the answers to any of these questions are yes, then a company must be careful not to pour too many resources into getting ahead of the market opportunity—the race is likely going to be more of a 10-year marathon than a 2-year sprint.


               353. A
Any company that seeks competitive advantage by being a first mover thus needs to ask some hard questions. Does market takeoff depend on the development of complementary products or services that currently are not available? Is new infrastructure required before buyer demand can surge? Will buyers need to learn new skills or adopt new behaviors? Will buyers encounter high switching costs in moving to the newly introduced product or service? Are there influential competitors in a position to delay or derail the efforts of a first mover? When the answers to any of these questions are yes, then a company must be careful not to pour too many resources into getting ahead of the market opportunity—the race is likely going to be closer to a ten-year marathon rather than a two-year sprint.


               354. A
In situations when rapid market evolution including growth in demand occurs (due to fast-paced changes in either technology or buyer needs and expectations), fast followers and maybe even cautious late movers have an opening to leapfrog a first mover’s products with more attractive next-version or even complementary products.


               355. C
The scope of the firm refers to the range of activities that the firm performs internally, the breadth of its product and service offerings, the extent of its geographic market presence, and its mix of businesses.


               356. E
Merger and acquisition strategies typically set sights on achieving any of five objectives: (1) creating a more cost-efficient operation out of the combined companies; (2) expanding a company’s geographic coverage; (3) extending the company’s business into new product categories; (4) gaining quick access to new technologies or other resources and capabilities; and, (5) leading the convergence of industries whose boundaries are being blurred by changing technologies and new market opportunities.


               357. B
See Concepts and Connections 6.3. All of the above, except for the development and deployment of control integration, could be said to collectively count among the objectives of Tesla’s vertical integration strategy. Unlike many vehicle manufacturers, Tesla embraces vertical integration from component manufacturing all the way through vehicle sales and servicing. In order to drive innovation in a critical part of its supply chain, Tesla has invested in a “gigafactory” that manufactures the batteries that are essential for a long-lasting electric vehicle. According to Tesla’s former VP of Production, in-house manufacturing of key components and new parts that require frequent updates has enabled the company to learn quickly and launch new versions faster. Moreover, having closer relationships between engineering and manufacturing gives Tesla greater control over product design. Tesla uses forward vertical integration to improve the customer experience by owning the distribution and servicing of the vehicles it builds. Its network of dealerships allows Tesla to sell directly to consumers and handle maintenance needs without relying on third parties that sometimes have competing priorities.


               358. B
By definition, a merger is the combination of two or more companies into a single corporate entity (with the newly created company often taking on a new name), whereas an acquisition is a combination in which one company purchases and absorbs the operations of another company.


               359. C
The convergence of the pharmacy industry with health insurers and benefits management led to both the mergers between Cigna and Express Scripts and between CVS and Aetna.


               360. A
Merger and acquisition strategies typically set sights on achieving any of five objectives: (1) extending the company’s business into new product categories, (2) creating a more cost-efficient operation out of the combined companies, (3) expanding a company’s geographic coverage, (4) gaining quick access to new technologies or complementary resources and capabilities, and (5) leading the convergence of industries whose boundaries are being blurred by changing technologies and new market opportunities.


               361. B
Combining the operations of two companies via merger or acquisition is an attractive strategic option for achieving operating economies, including cost savings by combining and downsizing support activities, and leading the convergence of industries whose boundaries are being blurred by changing technologies and new market opportunities.


               362. E
Despite many successes, mergers and acquisitions do not always produce the hoped-for outcomes. This is because: (1) cost savings may prove smaller than expected, (2) gains in competitive capabilities may take substantially longer to realize or, worse, may never materialize, (3) efforts to mesh the corporate cultures can stall due to formidable resistance from organization members, (4) key employees at the acquired company can quickly become disenchanted and leave, (5) the morale of company personnel who remain can drop to disturbingly low levels because they disagree with newly instituted changes, (6) differences in management styles and operating procedures can prove hard to resolve, and (7) managers appointed to oversee the integration of a newly acquired company can make mistakes in deciding which activities to leave alone and which activities to meld into their own operations and systems.


               363. B
Despite many successes, mergers and acquisitions do not always produce the hoped-for outcomes. Several mergers and acquisitions have been notably unsuccessful.


               364. E
Merger and acquisition strategies typically set sights on achieving any of the five following objectives: (1) creating a more cost-efficient operation out of the combined companies, (2) expanding a company’s geographic coverage, (3) extending the company’s business into new product categories, (4) gaining quick access to new technologies or other resources and capabilities, and (5) leading the convergence of industries whose boundaries are being blurred by changing technologies and new market opportunities.


               365. D
Despite many successes, mergers and acquisitions do not always produce the outcomes hoped for. Cost savings may prove smaller than expected. Gains in competitive capabilities may take substantially longer to realize or, worse, may never materialize at all. Efforts to mesh the corporate cultures can stall due to formidable resistance from organization members. Key employees at the acquired company can quickly become disenchanted and leave; the morale of company personnel who remain can drop to disturbingly low levels because they disagree with newly instituted changes. Differences in management styles and operating procedures can prove hard to resolve. In addition, the managers appointed to oversee the integration of a newly acquired company can make mistakes in deciding which activities to leave alone and which activities to meld into their own operations and systems.


               366. B
Merger and acquisition strategies typically set sights on achieving any of five objectives: (1) creating a more cost-efficient operation out of the combined companies; (2) expanding a company’s geographic coverage; (3) extending the company’s business into new product categories; (4) gaining quick access to new technologies or other resources and capabilities; and (5) leading the convergence of industries whose boundaries are being blurred by changing technologies and new market opportunities.


               367. C
Merger and acquisition strategies typically set sights on achieving any of five objectives: (1) creating a more cost-efficient operation out of the combined companies; (2) expanding a company’s geographic coverage; (3) extending the company’s business into new product categories; (4) gaining quick access to new technologies or other resources and capabilities; and (5) leading the convergence of industries whose boundaries are being blurred by changing technologies and new market opportunities.


               368. A
Vertical integration extends a firm’s competitive and operating scope within the same industry. It involves expanding the firm’s range of value chain activities backward into sources of supply and/or forward toward end-users. A vertically integrated firm is one that performs value chain activities along more than one stage of an industry’s overall value chain.


               369. D
The two best reasons for investing company resources in vertical integration are to strengthen the firm’s competitive position and/or to boost its profitability. Vertical integration has no real payoff unless it produces sufficient cost savings to justify the extra investment, adds materially to a company’s technological and competitive strengths, and/or helps differentiate the company’s product offering.


               370. E
Backward vertical integration can produce a differentiation-based competitive advantage when performing activities internally contributes to a better-quality product or service offering, improves the caliber of customer service, or in other ways enhances the performance of the final product. On occasion, integrating into more stages along the industry value chain system can add to a company’s differentiation capabilities by allowing it to strengthen its core competencies, better master key skills or strategy-critical technologies, or add features that deliver greater customer value.


               371. E
All of the above except (E) are examples of forward vertical integration.


               372. B
All of the answer choices, except footwear manufacturer developing own-branded retail stores, are examples of backward integration.


               373. D
The two best reasons for investing company resources in vertical integration are to strengthen the firm’s competitive position and/or to boost its profitability.


               374. B
Backward vertical integration works best in situations where (1) suppliers have very large profit margins, (2) where the item being supplied is a major cost component, and/or (3) the requisite technological skills are easily mastered or acquired. Backward integration has no payoff unless it produces sufficient cost savings to justify the extra investment, adds materially to a company’s technological and competitive strengths, and/or helps differentiate the company’s product offering.


               375. A
Backward vertical integration can produce a differentiation-based competitive advantage when performing activities internally contributes to a better-quality product/service offering, improves the caliber of customer service, or in other ways enhances the performance of a final product. Other potential advantages of backward integration include sparing a company the uncertainty of being dependent on suppliers for crucial components or support services and lessening a company’s vulnerability to powerful suppliers inclined to raise prices at every opportunity. For backward integration to be a viable and profitable strategy, a company must be able to (1) achieve the same scale economies as outside suppliers and (2) match or beat suppliers’ production efficiency with no decline in quality. Furthermore, the best potential for being able to reduce costs via a backward integration strategy exists in situations where suppliers have very large profit margins, where the item being supplied is a major cost component, and where the requisite technological skills are easily mastered or acquired.


               376. A
Vertical integration into forward stages of the industry value chain allows manufacturers to gain better access to end-users, improve market visibility, and include the end-user’s purchasing experience as a differentiating feature.


               377. C
Vertical integration into forward stages of the industry value chain allows manufacturers to gain better access to end-users, improve market visibility, and include the end-user’s purchasing experience as a differentiating feature.


               378. D
Bypassing regular wholesale/retail channels in favor of direct sales and Internet retailing can have appeal if it lowers distribution costs, produces a relative cost advantage over certain rivals, offers higher margins, or results in lower selling prices to end-users. In addition, sellers are compelled to include the Internet as a retail channel when a sufficiently large number of buyers in an industry prefer to make purchases online. Furthermore, in industries where the strong support and goodwill of dealer networks is essential, companies may conclude that it is important to avoid channel conflict and that their website should be designed to partner with dealers rather than compete with them.


               379. C
Among the most serious drawbacks to vertical integration are (1) vertical integration increases a firm’s capital investment in its industry, (2) integrating into more industry value chain segments increases business risk if industry growth and profitability sour, (3) vertically integrated companies are often slow to embrace technological advances or more-efficient production methods, (4) integrating backward potentially results in less flexibility in accommodating shifting buyer preferences, (5) vertical integration poses all kinds of capacity-matching problems, and (6) integration forward or backward often requires the development of new skills and business capabilities. Expanding a company’s ability to achieve greater product differentiation, etc., is actually one of the strategic advantages of vertical integration.


               380. C
Backward vertical integration works best in situations where (1) suppliers have very large profit margins, (2) where the item being supplied is a major cost component, and/or (3) the requisite technological skills are easily mastered or acquired. Backward integration has no payoff unless it produces sufficient cost savings to justify the extra investment, adds materially to a company’s technological and competitive strengths, and/or helps differentiate the company’s product offering.


               381. A
By definition, backward integration involves performing industry value chain activities previously performed by suppliers or other enterprises engaged in earlier stages of the industry value chain.


               382. E
Outsourcing involves contracting out certain value chain activities to outside specialists and strategic allies.


               383. E
Outsourcing certain value chain activities makes strategic sense whenever an activity can be performed better or more cheaply by outside specialists; the activity is not crucial to the firm’s ability to achieve sustainable competitive advantage; the outsourcing improves organizational flexibility and speeds time to market; it reduces the company’s risk exposure to changing technology and buyer preferences; and, it allows a company to concentrate on its core business, leverage its key resources, and do even better what it already does best.


               384. B
The biggest danger of outsourcing is that a company will farm out the wrong types of activities and thereby hollow out its own capabilities.


               385. B
The advantages of outsourcing include: (1) an activity can be performed better or more cheaply by outside specialists; (2) said activity is not crucial to the firm’s ability to achieve sustainable competitive advantage and won’t hollow out its capabilities, core competencies, or technical know-how; (3) it improves organizational flexibility and speeds time to market; (4) it reduces the company’s risk exposure to changing technology and/or buyer preferences; and (5) it allows a company to concentrate on its core business, leverage its key resources and core competencies, and do even better what it already does best.


               386. B
Outsourcing is most beneficial when an activity can be performed better or more cheaply by outside specialists and improves organizational flexibility. The biggest danger of outsourcing is that a company will farm out the wrong types of activities and thereby hollow out its own capabilities. Another risk of outsourcing comes from the lack of direct control. It may be difficult to monitor, control, and coordinate the activities of outside parties via contracts and arm’s-length transactions alone. Vertical integration can result in less flexibility in accommodating shifting buyer preferences. Also, it may be difficult to monitor, control, and coordinate the activities of outside parties via contracts and arm’s-length transactions alone. Unanticipated problems may arise that cause delays or cost overruns and become hard to resolve amicably.


               387. A
The major drawback of outsourcing for Acre Pizza is that the company will farm out the wrong types of activities and thereby hollow out its own capabilities. Another risk of outsourcing comes from the lack of direct control. It may be difficult to monitor, control, and coordinate the activities of outside parties via contracts and arm’s-length transactions alone. Vertical integration can result in less flexibility in accommodating shifting buyer preferences.


               388. C
Backward vertical integration works best in situations where: (1) suppliers have very large profit margins, (2) the item being supplied is a major cost component, and/or (3) the requisite technological skills are easily mastered or acquired. Backward integration has no payoff unless it produces sufficient cost savings to justify the extra investment, adds materially to a company’s technological and competitive strengths, and/or helps differentiate the company’s product offering.


               389. B
Outsourcing is most beneficial when an activity can be performed better or more cheaply by outside specialists and improves organizational flexibility. The biggest danger of outsourcing is that a company will farm out the wrong types of activities and thereby hollow out its own capabilities. Another risk of outsourcing comes from the lack of direct control. It may be difficult to monitor, control, and coordinate the activities of outside parties via contracts and arm’s-length transactions alone. Vertical integration can result in less flexibility in accommodating shifting buyer preferences. Also, it may be difficult to monitor, control, and coordinate the activities of outside parties via contracts and arm’s-length transactions alone. Unanticipated problems may arise that cause delays or cost overruns and become hard to resolve amicably.


               390. C
A strategic alliance is a formal agreement between two or more separate companies in which there is strategically relevant collaboration of some sort, joint contribution of resources, shared risk, shared control, and mutual dependence.


               391. A
Among most common reasons companies enter into strategic alliances is to bundle the resources and competencies (such as personnel and expertise needed to create desirable new skill sets and capabilities) that are more valuable in a joint effort than when going it alone.


               392. C
A joint venture entails forming a new corporate entity that is jointly owned by two or more companies that agree to share in the revenues, expenses, and control of the newly formed entity.


               393. E
Companies employ strategic alliances and partnerships to extend their scope of operations via international expansion. Doing so via cooperative arrangements with other companies lowers investment costs and risks in comparison to going it alone. Strategic cooperation is a much-favored approach in industries where new technological developments are occurring at a furious pace along many different paths and where advances in one technology spill over to affect others (often blurring industry boundaries).


               394. A
Alliances are more likely to be long-lasting when (1) they involve collaboration with partners that do not compete directly; (2) a trusting relationship has been established; and (3) both parties conclude that continued collaboration is in their mutual interest, perhaps because new opportunities for learning are emerging.


               395. B
An alliance becomes “strategic,” as opposed to just a convenient business arrangement, when it serves any of the following purposes: it facilitates achievement of an important business objective (like lowering costs or delivering more value to customers in the form of better quality, added features, and greater durability); it helps build, strengthen, or sustain a core competence or competitive advantage; it helps remedy an important resource deficiency or competitive weakness; it helps defend against a competitive threat, or mitigates a significant risk to a company’s business; it increases bargaining power over suppliers or buyers; it helps open up important new market opportunities; and it speeds the development of new technologies and/or product innovations.


               396. D
Experience indicates that alliances stand a reasonable chance of helping a company reduce competitive disadvantage, but very rarely have they proved a strategic option for gaining a durable competitive edge over rivals.


               397. B
An alliance becomes “strategic,” as opposed to just a convenient business arrangement, when it serves any of the following purposes: it facilitates achievement of an important business objective (like lowering costs or delivering more value to customers in the form of better quality, added features, and greater durability); it helps build, strengthen, or sustain a core competence or competitive advantage; it helps remedy an important resource deficiency or competitive weakness; it helps defend against a competitive threat, or mitigates a significant risk to a company’s business; it increases bargaining power over suppliers or buyers; it helps open up important new market opportunities; and it speeds the development of new technologies and/or product innovations.


               398. A
The principal advantages of strategic alliances over vertical integration or horizontal mergers and acquisitions are threefold. (1) They lower investment costs and risks for each partner by facilitating resource pooling and risk sharing. (2) They are more flexible organizational forms and allow for a more adaptive response to changing conditions. (3) And they are more rapidly deployed.


               399. B
The Achilles’ heel of alliances and cooperative strategies is becoming dependent on other companies for essential expertise and capabilities. To be a market leader (and perhaps even a serious market contender), a company must ultimately develop its own resources and capabilities in areas where internal strategic control is pivotal to protecting its competitiveness and building competitive advantage.


               400. E
The merits of strategic alliances and collaborative partnerships are: picking a good partner; being sensitive to cultural differences; recognizing that the alliance must benefit both sides; ensuring that both parties live up to their commitments; structuring the decision-making process so that actions can be taken swiftly when needed; managing the learning process and then adjusting the alliance agreement over time to fit new circumstances.


               401. A
A company may opt to expand outside its domestic market for any of five major reasons: (1) to gain access to new customers; (2) to achieve lower costs through economies of scale, experience, and increased purchasing power; (3) to gain access to low-cost inputs of production; (4) to further exploit its core competencies; and (5) to gain access to resources and capabilities located in foreign markets. Cross-border strategic alliances create value through resource sharing and risk spreading.


               402. E
Strengthening capability to employ offensive strategies is not one of the five principal reasons that companies choose to expand into foreign markets. A company may opt to expand outside its home country for a variety of reasons, which include (1) the ability to gain access to new customers; (2) to achieve lower costs and enhance competitiveness; (3) to leverage core competencies in new markets; (4) to gain access to resources and capabilities (labor, resources, technology, distribution networks) in foreign markets; and (5) to spread business risk across a wider market base.


               403. B
Differences in wage rates, worker productivity, energy costs, and the like create sizable variations in manufacturing costs from country to country. By locating its plants in certain countries, firms in some industries can reap major manufacturing cost advantages because of input quality and availability, lower input costs (especially labor), relaxed government regulations, the proximity of suppliers and technologically related industries, or unique natural resources. For Tiffany & Co., Canada offered input quality and availability; in this instance, the primary consideration was assuring diamonds that could be certified as “conflict-free” and not associated with unethical mining practices or the finding of military activities in Africa.


               404. E
A company like Whirlpool may opt to expand its R&D activities outside its domestic markets to gain access to new customers; to achieve lower costs through economies of scale, experience, and increased purchasing power; and to further exploit its core competencies. Whirlpool’s efforts to link its product R&D and manufacturing operations in North America, Latin America, Europe, and Asia allowed it to accelerate the discovery of innovative appliance features, coordinate the introduction of these features in the appliance products marketed in different countries, and create a cost-efficient worldwide supply chain. Whirlpool’s conscious efforts to integrate and coordinate its various operations around the world have helped it achieve operational excellence and speed product innovations to market.


               405. E
A one-country customer base like South Korea is too small for Kia to support the resource buildup needed to compete in international markets; this is particularly true in a protected market, like South Korea, where competitively powerful resources are not required. By deploying capabilities across a larger international domain, a company like Kia can gain the experience needed to upgrade them to a higher performance standard. Moreover, deploying capabilities outside of South Korea spreads Kia’s fixed development costs over a greater volume of unit sales, thus contributing to low unit costs and a potential cost-based competitive advantage in recently entered geographic markets. By facing a more challenging set of international competitors than, say, Hyundai in South Korea, Kia will be spurred to develop a stronger set of competitive capabilities. Moreover, by entering international markets, Kia may be able to augment its capability set by learning from international rivals, cooperative partners, or acquisition targets.


               406. A
See Figure 7.1. A company may opt to expand outside its home country for a variety of reasons, including: (1) the ability to gain access to new customers; (2) to achieve lower costs and enhance competitiveness; (3) to leverage core competencies in new markets; (4) to gain access to resources and capabilities (labor, resources, technology, distribution networks) in foreign markets; and (5) to spread business risk across a wider market base. In this specific example, a partnership (and subsequent merger) with Alliance Boots had several strategic advantages, allowing Walgreens to gain swift entry into foreign markets as well as complementary assets and expertise. First, it gave Walgreens access to new markets beyond the saturated United States for its retail pharmacies. Second, it provided Walgreens with a new revenue stream in wholesale drugs. Alliance Boots held a vast European distribution network for wholesale drug sales; Walgreens could leverage that network and expertise to build a similar model in the United States. Finally, a merger with Alliance Boots would strengthen Walgreens’s existing business by increasing the company’s market position and therefore bargaining power with drug companies. Alliances and joint ventures with foreign partners have their pitfalls, however. It is not unusual for partners to discover they have conflicting objectives and strategies, deep differences of opinion about how to proceed, or important differences in corporate values and ethical standards. Tensions build, working relationships cool, and the hoped-for benefits never materialize.


               407. C
A company like ExxonMobil may opt to expand outside its domestic market for any one of the five following major reasons: (1) to gain access to new customers; (2) to achieve lower costs through economies of scale, experience, and increased purchasing power; (3) to gain access to low-cost inputs of production; (4) to further exploit its core competencies; and (5) to gain access to resources and capabilities located in foreign markets. Companies like ExxonMobil that operate primarily in industries based on natural resources (e.g., oil and gas, minerals, rubber, and lumber) often find it necessary to operate in the international arena since raw-material supplies are located in different parts of the world and can be accessed more cost-effectively at the source.


               408. D
Companies operating in a global marketplace must wrestle with whether and how much to customize their offerings in each different country market to match the tastes and preferences of local buyers or whether to pursue a strategy of offering a mostly standardized product worldwide.


               409. D
Many companies are driven to sell in more than one country because domestic sales volume alone is not large enough to capture fully economies of scale in product development, manufacturing, or marketing. Similarly, firms expand internationally to increase the rate at which they accumulate experience and move down the learning curve. International expansion can also lower a company’s input costs through greater pooled purchasing power. Companies often expand internationally to extend the life cycle of their products. An increasingly important motive for entering foreign markets is to acquire resources and capabilities that may be unavailable in a company’s home market.


               410. A
A company may opt to expand outside its domestic markets to gain access to new customers; to achieve lower costs through economies of scale, experience, and increased purchasing power; and to further exploit its core competencies. Companies also choose to establish operations in other countries to utilize local distribution networks, gain local managerial or marketing expertise, or acquire technical knowledge.


               411. A
Differences in buyer tastes and preferences present a challenge for companies concerning customizing versus standardizing their products and services. Greater standardization of a global company’s product offering can lead to scale economies and learning-curve effects, thus contributing to the achievement of a low-cost advantage. Differing population sizes, income levels, and other demographic factors give rise to considerable differences in market size and growth rates from country to country. Sometimes, product designs suitable in one country are inappropriate in another because of differing local standards. When companies produce and market their products and services in many different countries, they are subject to the impacts of sometimes favorable and sometimes unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates.


               412. D
Crafting a strategy to compete in one or more countries of the world involves an evaluation that shows how: (1) different countries have different home-country advantages in different industries; (2) there are location-based advantages to conducting particular value chain activities in different parts of the world; (3) different political and economic conditions make the general business climate more favorable in some countries than in others; (4) companies face risks due to adverse shifts in currency exchange rates when operating in foreign markets; and (5) differences in buyer tastes and preferences present a challenge for companies concerning customizing versus standardizing their products and services.


               413. C
Buyer tastes for a particular product or service sometimes differ substantially from country to country. As it is the primary manufacturing base to some of the world’s largest vodka distillers, including Stolichnaya, the former Soviet republic of Latvia is unlikely to provide loans to U.S. rival entrants.


               414. B
Sizable shifts in exchange rates pose significant risks to Walgreen Boots Alliance for two reasons: (1) they are hard to predict because of the variety of factors involved and the uncertainties surrounding when and by how much these factors will change; and (2) they shuffle the cards of which countries represent the low-cost manufacturing locations and which rivals have the upper hand in the marketplace. When the currency of the country where the goods are being manufactured becomes weak, the cost of producing the same quantity of goods declines, making these goods cost-competitive in the countries where they are being exported. Therefore, the companies exporting goods being manufactured in countries with weak currencies are likely to benefit rather than be disadvantaged by such a shift in exchange rates. On the contrary, if the currency of the country where the goods are being manufactured gets stronger vis-à-vis currencies of the country where the good are being exported, the cost of manufacturing goes up, making these goods less cost-competitive in the countries where they are being exported. Also, domestic companies facing competitive pressure from lower-cost imports benefit when their government’s currency grows weaker because the imports get expensive and therefore, the demand for imported goods decline. (For reference, see Concepts & Connections 7.1.)


               415. C
Buyer tastes for a particular product or service sometimes differ substantially from country to country. As it is home to some of the world’s largest whisky distillers, it is unlikely to provide loans to U.S. rival entrants.


               416. A
Differing population sizes, income levels, and other demographic factors give rise to considerable differences in market size and growth rates from country to country. Moreover, market growth can be limited by the lack of infrastructure or established distribution and retail networks in emerging markets.


               417. E
All of the following market conditions across countries influence a company’s strategy choices in international markets: (1) buyer tastes, differing population sizes, income levels, market growth rates, and other demographic factors that influence product customization decisions; (2) wage rates, worker productivity, energy costs, environmental regulations, tax rates, and inflation rates that influence location choices; and (3) government policies, economic risk, and political risk that make a country’s business climate attractive or unattractive.


               418. E
All of the following market conditions across countries influence a company’s strategy choices in international markets: (1) buyer tastes, differing population sizes, income levels, market growth rates, and other demographic factors that influence product customization decisions; (2) wage rates, worker productivity, energy costs, environmental regulations, tax rates, and inflation rates that influence location choices; and (3) government policies, economic risk, and political risk that make a country’s business climate attractive or unattractive.


               419. E
All of the following market conditions across countries influence a company’s strategy choices in international markets, except crafting a multicountry strategy: (1) buyer tastes, differing population sizes, income levels, market growth rates, and other demographic factors that influence product customization decisions; (2) wage rates, worker productivity, energy costs, environmental regulations, tax rates, and inflation rates that influence location choices; and (3) government policies, economic risk, and political risk that make a country’s business climate attractive or unattractive.


               420. E
See Concepts and Connections 7.2. Four important factors shape a company’s configuration of a transnational strategy: (1) the degree to which there are important cross-country differences in demographic, cultural, and market conditions; (2) whether opportunities exist to gain a location-based advantage based on wage rates, worker productivity, inflation rates, energy costs, tax rates, and other factors that impact cost structure; (3) the risks of adverse shifts in currency exchange rates; and (4) the extent to which governmental policies affect the local business climate. In the chapter example, it is noted that, in contrast to its key competitor, Ritz-Carlton, which strives to create one uniform experience globally, Four Seasons Hotels has gained market share by deftly combining local architectural and cultural experiences with globally consistent luxury service. Four Seasons Hotels has gained market share by deftly combining local architectural and cultural experiences with globally consistent luxury service. When moving into a new market, Four Seasons always seeks out a local capital partner. The understanding of local custom and business relationships this financier brings is critical to the process of developing a new Four Seasons hotel. Four Seasons also insists on hiring a local architect and design consultant for each property, as opposed to using architects or designers it has worked with in other locations. While this can be a challenge, particularly in emerging markets, Four Seasons has found it is worth it in the long run to have a truly local team.


               421. D
Fluctuating exchange rates impact companies that export goods to foreign countries. Companies always gain in cost/price competitiveness when the currency of the country in which the goods are manufactured is weak. Exporters are disadvantaged when the currency of the country where goods are being manufactured grows stronger.


               422. D
Fluctuating exchange rates impact companies that export goods to foreign countries. Companies always gain in cost/price competitiveness when the currency of the country in which the goods are manufactured is weak. Exporters are disadvantaged when the currency of the country where goods are being manufactured grows stronger.


               423. B
All of the choices, except for “incentives,” tend to adversely increase a host country’s political and economic risks.


               424. E
The five general modes for entering foreign markets are: (1) exporting from a national base; (2) licensing foreign firms to produce and distribute goods and services abroad; (3) franchising involving local ownership; (4) establishing a subsidiary via acquisition or internal development; and (5) relying on strategic alliances, joint ventures, and other cooperative agreements with foreign companies.


               425. A
A profit sanctuary strategy is not one of the five general modes for entering foreign markets. Strategy options for expanding into markets of foreign countries include: (1) exporting from a national base; (2) licensing foreign firms to produce and distribute goods and services abroad; (3) franchising involving local ownership; (4) establishing a subsidiary via acquisition or internal development; and (5) relying on strategic alliances, joint ventures, and other cooperative agreements with foreign companies.


               426. E
The top three artificial heart valve manufacturers use U.S. domestic plants as a production base for exporting goods to foreign markets. It is a conservative way to dominate international markets.


               427. A
Using domestic plants as a production base for exporting goods to foreign markets is an excellent initial strategy for pursuing international sales. It is a conservative way to test the international waters.


               428. B
The amount of capital needed to begin exporting is often quite minimal, and existing production capacity may be sufficient to make goods for export. With an export-based entry strategy, a manufacturer can limit its involvement in foreign markets by contracting with foreign wholesalers experienced in importing to handle the entire distribution and marketing function in their countries or regions of the world.


               429. D
The advantages of a licensing entry strategy to participate in foreign markets accrue when: (1) a firm with valuable technical know-how or a unique patented product has neither the internal organizational capability nor the resources to enter foreign markets; (2) a firm wishes to avoid the risks of committing resources to country markets that are unfamiliar, politically volatile, economically unstable, or otherwise risky; and (3) a firm does not have to bear the costs and risks of entering foreign markets on its own, yet it is able to generate income from royalties.


               430. A
Franchising has much the same advantages as licensing. The franchisee bears most of the costs and risks of establishing foreign locations, so a franchisor has to expend only the resources to recruit, train, support, and monitor franchisees.


               431. E
The five general modes for entering foreign markets are: (1) exporting from a national base; (2) licensing foreign firms to produce and distribute goods and services abroad; (3) franchising involving local ownership; (4) establishing a subsidiary via acquisition or greenfield development; and (5) relying on strategic alliances, joint ventures, and other cooperative agreements with foreign companies.


               432. C
Companies that prefer direct control over all aspects of operating in a foreign market can establish a wholly-owned subsidiary, either by acquiring a foreign company or by establishing operations from the ground up via internal development.


               433. C
Acquisition of an existing firm operating in a foreign country may be the less risky and more cost-efficient than internal development when it comes to hurdling such entry barriers as gaining access to local distribution channels, building supplier relationships, and establishing working relationships with key government officials and other constituencies.


               434. E
Cross-border alliances enable a growth-minded company like Nissan (Japan) and Renault (France) to widen its geographic coverage and strengthen its competitiveness in foreign markets; at the same time, they offer flexibility and allow a company to retain some degree of autonomy and operating control. Strategic alliances, joint ventures, and other cooperative agreements with foreign companies are a favorite and potentially fruitful means for entering a foreign market or strengthening a firm’s competitiveness in world markets in order to (1) strengthen a company’s ability to gain a foothold in a desirable market; (2) capture economies of scale in production and/or marketing; (3) fill gaps in technical expertise and/or knowledge of local markets (buying habits and product preferences of consumers, local customs, and so on); (4) share distribution facilities and dealer networks to mutually strengthen access to buyers; (5) refocus energies away from competition between allies and instead toward teaming up to close the gap on leading companies; and (6) allow each partner to preserve its independence and avoid using perhaps scarce financial resources to fund acquisitions.


               435. B
Entering a new foreign country via internal development and building a foreign subsidiary from scratch makes sense when: (1) a company already operates in a number of countries, (2) a company has experience in getting new subsidiaries up and running and overseeing their operations, (3) a company has a sufficiently large pool of resources and competencies to rapidly equip a new subsidiary, (4) an internal startup is cheaper than making an acquisition, (5) adding new production capacity will not adversely impact the supply-demand balance in the local market, (6) a startup subsidiary has the ability to gain good distribution access (perhaps because of the company’s recognized brand name), and/or (7) a startup subsidiary will have the size, cost structure, and resources to compete head-to-head against local rivals. Adding new production capacity that results in a supply-demand imbalance would tend to make an internally developed startup in a foreign country unappealing.


               436. D
Even if the alliance becomes a win-win proposition for both parties, there is the danger of becoming overly dependent on foreign partners for essential expertise and competitive capabilities.


               437. A
Strategic alliances, joint ventures, and other cooperative agreements with foreign companies are a favorite and potentially fruitful means for entering a foreign market or strengthening a firm’s competitiveness in world markets. in order to: (1) strengthen a company’s ability to gain a foothold in a desirable market; (2) capture economies of scale in production and/or marketing; (3) fill gaps in technical expertise and/or knowledge of local markets (buying habits and product preferences of consumers, local customs, and so on); (4) share distribution facilities and dealer networks to mutually strengthen access to buyers; and (5) refocus energies away from competition between allies and instead toward teaming up to close the gap on leading companies; and (6) allow each partner to preserve its independence and avoid using perhaps scarce financial resources to fund acquisitions. All of the above except Yum! Brands’ sale of franchises of KFC in China are examples of cross-border alliances that have been formed to enter foreign markets, or strengthen a firm’s competitiveness in international markets.


               438. B
Deciding upon the degree to vary its competitive approach to fit the specific market conditions and buyer preferences in each host country is perhaps the foremost strategic issue that must be addressed when operating in two or more foreign markets. Figure 7.1 shows the three primary strategic options for competing internationally.


               439. C
Figure 7.1 shows the three primary strategic options for competing internationally. A multidomestic strategy calls for varying a company’s product offering and competitive approach from country to country in an effort to be responsive to significant cross-country differences in customer preferences, buyer purchasing habits, distribution channels, or marketing methods. Think-local, act-local strategy-making approaches are also essential when host-government regulations or trade policies preclude a uniform, coordinated worldwide market approach.


               440. A
Figure 7.1 shows the three primary strategic options for competing internationally. A multidomestic strategy calls for varying a company’s product offering and competitive approach from country to country in an effort to be responsive to significant cross-country differences in customer preferences, buyer purchasing habits, distribution channels, or marketing methods. Think-local, act-local strategy-making approaches are also essential for matching a company’s competitive approach to prevailing local market and competitive conditions or when host-government regulations or trade policies preclude a uniform, coordinated worldwide market approach.


               441. C
Figure 7.1 shows the three primary strategic options for competing internationally. A multidomestic strategy calls for varying a company’s product offering and competitive approach from country to country in an effort to be responsive to significant cross-country differences in customer preferences, buyer purchasing habits, distribution channels, or marketing methods. Think-local, act-local strategy-making approaches are also essential when host-government regulations or trade policies preclude a uniform, coordinated worldwide market approach.


               442. D
Multidomestic think-local, act-local strategy-making approaches come with two major drawbacks: (1) they hinder transfer of a company’s competencies and resources across country boundaries because the strategies in different host countries can be grounded in varying competencies and capabilities; and (2) they do not promote building a single, unified competitive advantage, especially one based on low cost. Companies employing highly localized or multidomestic strategies also face big hurdles in achieving low-cost leadership unless they find ways to customize their products and still be in a position to capture scale economies and learning-curve effects.


               443. C
Multidomestic think-local, act-local strategy-making approaches come with two major drawbacks: (1) they hinder transfer of a company’s competencies and resources across country boundaries because the strategies in different host countries can be grounded in varying competencies and capabilities; and (2) they do not promote building a single, unified competitive advantage, especially one based on low cost.


               444. E
A multidomestic strategy (“think local, act local”) calls for varying a company’s product offering and competitive approach from country to country in an effort to be more responsive than a global strategy, at least in terms of adapting to significant cross-country differences in customer preferences, buyer purchasing habits, distribution channels, or marketing methods. The two major drawbacks of a multidomestic strategy are: (1) it hinders transfer of a company’s competencies and resources across country boundaries because the strategies in different host countries can be grounded in varying competencies and capabilities; and (2) it does not promote building a single, unified competitive advantage, especially one based on low cost.


               445. B
While multidomestic strategies are best suited for industries where a fairly high degree of local responsiveness is important, global strategies are best suited for globally standardized industries, thus small country-by-country differences can be accommodated by a global strategy.


               446. B
See Figure 7.1 and Concepts & Connections 7.2. Four Seasons Hotels has struck the right balance between thinking globally and acting locally—the marker of a truly transnational strategy. As a result, the company has been rewarded with an international reputation for superior service and a leading market share in the luxury hospitality segment.
In a multidomestic strategy, the need for local responsiveness is high, and the benefits from global integration and standardization are low. A multidomestic strategy is one in which a company varies its product offering and competitive approach from country to country in an effort to be responsive to differing buyer preferences and market conditions. It is a think-local, act-local type of international strategy, facilitated by decision making decentralized to the local level.


               447. E
A firm’s international strategy (multidomestic, global, or transnational strategy) is simply its strategy for competing in two or more countries simultaneously. Electronic Arts (EA) employs a transnational or “glocalization” strategy that incorporates elements of both a globalized and a localized approach to strategy-making. EA has two major design studios—one in Vancouver, British Columbia, and one in Los Angeles—and smaller design studios in locations including San Francisco, Orlando, London, and Tokyo. This dispersion of design studios helps EA design games that are specific and localized for different cultures.


               448. C
Transnational strategies (think global, act local) are approaches to accommodate cross-country variations in buyer tastes, local customs, and market conditions while also striving for the benefits of standardization. This middle-ground approach entails utilizing the same basic competitive theme (low-cost, differentiation, or focused) in each country but allows local managers the latitude to (1) incorporate whatever country-specific variations in product attributes are needed to best satisfy local buyers and (2) make whatever adjustments in production, distribution, and marketing are needed to respond to local market conditions and compete successfully against local rivals.


               449. D
Transnational strategies (think global, act local) are approaches to accommodate cross-country variations in buyer tastes, local customs, and market conditions while also striving for the benefits of standardization. This middle-ground approach entails utilizing the same basic competitive theme (low-cost, differentiation, or focused) in each country but allows local managers the latitude to (1) incorporate whatever country-specific variations in product attributes are needed to best satisfy local buyers and (2) make whatever adjustments in production, distribution, and marketing are needed to respond to local market conditions and compete successfully against local rivals.


               450. D
To use location to build competitive advantage, a company must consider two issues: (1) whether to concentrate each internal process in a few countries or to disperse performance of each process to many nations and (2) in which countries to locate particular activities. A multinational firm can gain competitive advantage by expanding outside its domestic market in two important ways: it can use location to lower costs or help achieve greater product differentiation. That is, multinational companies can achieve a competitive advantage in world markets by locating their value chain activities in whichever nations prove most advantageous, by either concentrating activities in certain locations or dispersing internal processes across multiple locations.


               451. C
To use location to build competitive advantage, a company must consider two issues: (1) whether to concentrate each internal process in a few countries or to disperse performance of each process to many nations and (2) in which countries to locate particular activities.


               452. B
To use location to build competitive advantage, a company must consider two issues: (1) whether to concentrate each internal process in a few countries or to disperse performance of each process to many nations and (2) in which countries to locate particular activities.


               453. E
Multinational companies should concentrate internal processes in a few locations in the following situations: (1) when the costs of manufacturing or other activities are significantly lower in some geographic locations than in others; (2) when there are significant scale economies; (3) when there is a steep learning curve associated with performing an activity; and/or (4) when certain locations have superior resources, allow better coordination of related activities, or offer other valuable advantages, such as a sophisticated production facility or highly trained local personnel.


               454. B
As opposed to concentrating activities in a certain location, dispersing an internal process across many countries is more advantageous in some situations. Buyer-related activities, such as distribution to dealers, sales and advertising, and after-sale service, usually must take place close to buyers, making it necessary to physically locate the capability to perform such activities in every country market where a global firm has major customers. Dispersing activities to many locations is also competitively important when high transportation costs, diseconomies of large size, and trade barriers make it too expensive to operate from a central location or to hedge against the risks of fluctuating exchange rates and adverse political developments.


               455. B
Dispersing an internal process across many countries is more advantageous in some situations. Buyer-related activities, such as distribution to dealers, sales and advertising, and after-sales service, usually must take place close to buyers, making it necessary to physically locate the capability to perform such activities in every country market where a global firm has major customers. Dispersing activities to many locations is also competitively important when high transportation costs, diseconomies of large size, and trade barriers make it too expensive to operate from a central location or to hedge against the risks of fluctuating exchange rates and adverse political developments.


               456. E
When Dell entered China, it discovered that individuals and businesses were not accustomed to placing orders through the Internet. To adapt, Dell modified its direct sales model to rely more heavily on phone and fax orders while waiting for a greater acceptance of online ordering. Further, because numerous Chinese government departments and state-owned enterprises insisted that hardware vendors make their bids through distributors and systems integrators (as opposed to dealing directly with Dell salespeople as did large enterprises in other countries), Dell opted to use third parties in marketing its products to this buyer segment. But Dell was careful not to abandon the parts of its business model that gave it a competitive edge over rivals.


               457. E
Efficiencies can be achieved by shifting workloads from where they are unusually heavy to locations where personnel are underutilized. Whirlpool’s efforts to link its product R&D and manufacturing operations in North America, Latin America, Europe, and Asia allowed it to accelerate the discovery of innovative appliance features, coordinate the introduction of these features in the appliance products marketed in different countries, and create a cost-efficient worldwide supply chain. Whirlpool’s conscious efforts to integrate and coordinate its various operations around the world have helped it achieve operational excellence and speed product innovations to market.


               458. C
An example of cross-border coordination is shifting production from a plant in one country to a plant in another to take advantage of exchange rate fluctuations and to respond to changing wage rates, energy costs, or changes in tariffs and quotas. As noted in the chapter, for example, Whirlpool’s efforts to link its product R&D and manufacturing operations in North America, Latin America, Europe, and Asia allowed it to accelerate the discovery of innovative appliance features, coordinate the introduction of these features in the appliance products marketed in different countries, and create a cost-efficient worldwide supply chain. Whirlpool’s conscious efforts to integrate and coordinate its various operations around the world have helped it achieve operational excellence and speed product innovations to market.


               459. E
Companies like Adidas, headquartered in Germany, often locate a research unit or a sophisticated production facility in a particular country to take advantage of its pool of technically trained personnel. While in some instances, dispersing activities across locations is more advantageous than concentrating them, certain locations have superior resources, allow better coordination of related activities, or offer other valuable advantages.


               460. C
Airbus established a major assembly site for their commercial aircraft in Alabama since the United States is a major market. Companies like Airbus that compete multinationally can pursue competitive advantage in world markets by locating their value chain activities in whichever nations prove most advantageous. When certain locations have superior resources, allow better coordination of related activities, or offer other valuable advantages. A research unit or a sophisticated production facility may be situated in a particular nation because of its pool of technically trained personnel. Where just-in-time inventory practices yield big cost savings and/or where an assembly firm has long-term partnering arrangements with its key suppliers, parts manufacturing plants may be clustered around final-assembly plants. A customer service center or sales office may be opened in a particular country to help cultivate strong relationships with pivotal customers located nearby.


               461. D
Among the strategy options for tailoring a company’s strategy to fit the sometimes unusual or challenging circumstances presented in developing-country markets are the following: (1) prepare to compete on the basis of low price, (2) modify aspects of the company’s business model or strategy to accommodate local circumstances (but not so much that the company loses the advantage of global scale and global branding), (3) try to change the local market to better match the way the company does business elsewhere, and (4) stay away from those emerging markets where it is impractical or uneconomical to modify the company’s business model to accommodate local circumstances. Given the need for patience, developing a short-term strategy in this situation is illogical and is not among the strategy options for competing in emerging economies.


               462. E
Among the strategy options for tailoring a company’s strategy to fit the sometimes unusual or challenging circumstances presented in developing-country markets are the following: (1) prepare to compete on the basis of low price, (2) modify aspects of the company’s business model or strategy to accommodate local circumstances (but not so much that the company loses the advantage of global scale and global branding), (3) try to change the local market to better match the way the company does business elsewhere, and (4) stay away from those emerging markets where it is impractical or uneconomical to modify the company’s business model to accommodate local circumstances.


               463. A
Studies of local companies in developing markets have disclosed five strategies that have proved themselves in defending against globally competitive companies.
                  1. Develop business models that exploit shortcomings in local distribution networks or infrastructure.
                  2. Utilize keen understanding of local customer needs and preferences to create customized products or services.
                  3. Take advantage of aspects of the local workforce with which large international companies may be unfamiliar.
                  4. Use acquisition and rapid-growth strategies to better defend against expansion-minded internationals.
                  5. Transfer company expertise to cross-border markets and initiate actions to contend on an international level.


               464. E
No company pursuing global market leadership can afford to ignore the strategic importance of establishing competitive market positions in China, India, other parts of the Asian-Pacific region, Latin America, and Eastern Europe—countries and regions where the business risks are considerable but where the opportunities for growth are huge, especially as their economies develop and living standards climb toward levels in the advanced industrialized world.


               465. E
So long as a single-business company can achieve profitable growth opportunities in its present industry, there is no urgency to pursue diversification. However, a company’s opportunities for growth can become limited if the industry becomes competitively unattractive. Thus, diversifying into new industries always merits strong consideration whenever a single-business company encounters diminishing market opportunities and stagnating sales in its principal business.


               466. A
As long as a single-business company can achieve profitable growth opportunities in its present industry, there is no urgency to pursue diversification. Diversifying into new industries, however, always merits strong consideration whenever a single-business company encounters diminishing market opportunities and stagnating sales in its principal business or industry sector.


               467. B
Crafting a diversified company’s overall corporate strategy is aimed at creating enhanced shareholder value, that is, value that shareholders could not capture on their own by spreading their investments across the stocks of companies in different industries.


               468. B
Diversifying into new industries always merits strong consideration whenever a single-business company encounters diminishing market opportunities and stagnating sales in its principal business.


               469. C
Diversifying into new industries always merits strong consideration whenever a single-business company encounters diminishing market opportunities and stagnating sales in its principal business.


               470. B
Diversification cannot be considered a success unless it results in added shareholder value—value that shareholders cannot capture on their own by spreading their investments across the stocks of companies in different industries.


               471. D
Diversification cannot be considered a success unless it results in added shareholder value—value that shareholders cannot capture on their own by spreading their investments across the stocks of companies in different industries.


               472. D
Strategic options for improving the corporation’s overall performance include retrenching to a narrower scope of diversification by divesting poorly performing businesses, not well-performing businesses.


               473. A
Strategic uses of corporate financial resources should usually take precedence over strictly financial considerations unless there is a compelling reason to strengthen the firm’s balance sheet or better reward shareholders. The pursuit of debt reduction opportunities that can lower the debt/equity ratio while maintaining asset levels is not one of the rapid growth strategies for a company.


               474. E
The three tests for judging whether a particular diversification move can create value for shareholders are the industry attractiveness test, the cost-of-entry test, and the better-off test.


               475. A
The industry to be entered through diversification must offer an opportunity for profits and return on investment that is equal to or better than that of the company’s present business lineup.


               476. C
The cost to enter the target industry must not be so high as to erode the potential for good profitability and returns on investment.


               477. D
Diversifying into a new business must offer potential for the company’s existing businesses and the new business to perform better together under a single corporate umbrella than they would perform operating as independent, stand-alone businesses.


               478. C
As long as a single-business company can achieve profitable growth opportunities in its present industry, there is no urgency for Anna and Martha to pursue diversification. However, A&M’s opportunities for growth can become limited if its current industry becomes competitively unattractive. Thus, diversifying into new, faster-growing industries like financial planning for retirees always merits strong consideration whenever a single-business company encounters diminishing market opportunities and stagnating sales in its principal business.


               479. A
Not only is acquisition quicker than trying to launch a new operation, but it also offers an effective way to hurdle such entry barriers as acquiring technological know-how, establishing supplier relationships, achieving scale economies, building brand awareness, and securing adequate distribution. Acquisitions are also commonly employed to access resources and capabilities that are complementary to those of the acquiring firm and that cannot be readily developed internally.


               480. B
Choosing the appropriate value chain for each business the company has entered is not one of the elements of crafting corporate strategy for a diversified company.


               481. C
Generally, forming a startup subsidiary to enter a new business (via internal development) has appeal only when (1) the parent company already has in-house most or all of the skills and resources needed to compete effectively; (2) there is ample time to launch the business; (3) internal entry has lower costs than entry via acquisition; (4) the targeted industry is populated with many relatively small firms such that the new startup does not have to compete against large, powerful rivals; (5) adding new production capacity will not adversely impact the supply-demand balance in the industry; and (6) incumbent firms are likely to be slow or ineffective in responding to a new entrant’s efforts to crack the market.


               482. A
A joint venture is (1) a good vehicle for pursuing an opportunity that is too complex, uneconomical, or risky for one company to pursue alone and (2) makes sense when the opportunities in a new industry require a broader range of competencies and know-how than an expansion-minded company can marshal.


               483. A
See Concepts and Connections 8.1. The $62.6 billion merger between Kraft and Heinz that was finalized in 2015 created the third-largest food and beverage company in North America and the fifth largest in the world. It was a merger predicated on the idea that the strategic fit between these two companies was such that they could create more value as a combined enterprise than they could as two separate companies. As a combined enterprise, Kraft Heinz would be able to exploit its cross-business value chain activities and resource similarities to more efficiently produce, distribute, and sell profitable processed food products. Also, by combining R&D teams, the Kraft Heinz Company could come out with innovative products that may appeal more to the growing number of on-the-go and health-conscious buyers in the market. Many of these potential and predicted synergies for the Kraft Heinz Company have yet to be realized, however, because merger integration activities always take time.


               484. E
A joint venture (1) is a good vehicle for pursuing an opportunity that is too complex, uneconomical, or risky for one company to pursue alone and (2) makes sense when the opportunities in a new industry require a broader range of competencies and know-how than an expansion-minded company can marshal.


               485. E
Acquisition offers an effective way to hurdle such entry barriers as acquiring technological know-how, establishing supplier relationships, achieving scale economies, building brand awareness, and securing adequate distribution. The big dilemma an acquisition-minded firm faces is whether to pay a premium price for a successful company or to buy a struggling company at a bargain price.


               486. A
Businesses are “related” when their value chains possess competitively valuable cross-business relationships.


               487. E
Economies of scope stem directly from strategic fit along the value chains of related businesses, which in turn enables the businesses to share resources or to transfer them from business to business at low cost.


               488. B
See Figure 8.2. A related diversification strategy involves building the company around businesses whose value chains possess competitively valuable strategic fit, which includes sharing or transferring skills, expertise, technical know-how, or other capabilities.


               489. A
Generally, internal development of a new business for Tanisha’s event planning company has appeal only when (1) her company already has in-house most of the resources and capabilities it needs to piece together a new business and compete effectively; (2) there is ample time to launch the business; (3) the internal cost of entry is lower than the cost of entry via acquisition; (4) adding new lodging capacity will not adversely impact the supply/demand balance in that industry; and (5) incumbent firms are likely to be slow or ineffective in responding to a new entrant’s efforts to crack the market. If the target lodging industry is already comprised of several relatively large and well-established firms, it will not be appealing for Tanisha’s company to form an internal startup and enter and compete in the same industry.


               490. E
Cross-business strategic fit can exist anywhere along the value chain—in R&D and technology activities, supply chain activities, manufacturing, sales and marketing, or distribution activities.


               491. E
Cross-business strategic fit can exist anywhere along the value chain—in R&D and technology activities, supply chain activities, manufacturing, sales and marketing, or distribution activities. Likewise, different businesses can often use the same administrative and customer service infrastructure.


               492. A
Economies of scope stem directly from cost-saving strategic fit along the value chains of related businesses. Such economies are open only to a multibusiness enterprise and are the result of a related diversification strategy that allows sibling businesses to share technology, perform R&D together, use common manufacturing or distribution facilities, share a common sales force or distributor/dealer network, and/or share the same administrative infrastructure.


               493. A
Economies of scope stem directly from strategic fit along the value chains of related businesses, which in turn enables the businesses to share resources or to transfer them from business to business at low cost. By contrast, economies of scale are cost savings that accrue directly from a larger-sized operation—for example, unit costs may be lower in a large plant than in a small plant.


               494. C
Economies of scope plus the other strategic-fit benefits provide a dependable basis for earning higher profits and returns than what a diversified company’s businesses could earn as stand-alone enterprises. Converting the competitive advantage potential into greater profitability is what fuels 1 + 1 = 3 gains in shareholder value—the necessary outcome for satisfying the better-off test.


               495. C
Diversification does not result in added long-term value for shareholders unless it produces a 1 + 1 = 3 effect, whereby the businesses perform better together as part of the same firm than they could have performed as independent companies.


               496. A
Procter & Gamble’s strategic intent was to acquire businesses that would complement and strengthen the market position and competitive capabilities of business in industries where the company already had a stake. As stated in the text, a related corporate diversification strategy involves building the company around businesses where there is good strategic fit across corresponding value chain activities. Strategic fit exists whenever one or more activities constituting the value chains of different businesses are sufficiently similar to present opportunities for cross-business sharing or transferring of the resources and capabilities that enable these activities. In Procter & Gamble’s case, a very important and highly motivating factor for adding new businesses via the acquisition of Gillette was to complement and strengthen the market position and competitive capabilities of one or more of the company’s present businesses and share common distribution channels for those acquired brands.


               497. A
A related diversification strategy involves building the company around businesses whose value chains possess competitively valuable strategic-fit relationships.


               498. C
An unrelated diversification strategy discounts the importance of pursuing cross-business strategic fit and, instead, focuses squarely on entering and operating businesses in industries that allow the company as a whole to increase its earnings.


               499. E
An unrelated diversification strategy is deemed to have potential if it passes the industry-attractiveness and cost-of-entry tests, and if it has good prospects for attractive financial performance.


               500. E
Businesses are said to be unrelated when the activities comprising their respective value chains and resource requirements are so dissimilar that no competitively valuable cross-business relationships are present.


               501. D
Companies that pursue a strategy of unrelated diversification nearly always do so via acquisition rather than by internal development and generally exhibit a willingness to diversify into any industry where senior managers see opportunity to realize improved financial results. The premise of acquisition-minded corporations is that growth by acquisition can deliver enhanced shareholder value through upward-trending corporate revenues and earnings, and a stock price that on average rises enough year after year to amply reward and please shareholders.


               502. C
Three types of acquisition targets are usually of particular interest: (1) businesses that have bright growth prospects but are short on investment capital, (2) undervalued companies that can be acquired at a bargain price, and (3) struggling companies whose operations can be turned around with the aid of the parent company’s financial resources and managerial know-how.


               503. B
See Figure 8.1. The two main advantages of unrelated diversification are that it (1) spreads risks across completely different businesses and (2) builds shareholder value by corporate executives doing a superior job of selecting which businesses to diversify into and managing the whole collection of businesses in the conglomerate’s portfolio.


               504. E
Unrelated diversification strategies have two important negatives that undercut the pluses: very demanding managerial requirements and limited competitive advantage potential. That is, management sometimes undertakes a strategy of unrelated diversification for the wrong reasons: (1) risk reduction by spreading the company’s investments over a set of diverse industries; (2) expectations for rapid or continuous growth; (3) earnings stabilization, that is, market downtrends in some of the company’s businesses will be partially offset by cyclical upswings in its other businesses; (4) managerial motives including the prospects for higher compensation—diversification for this reason alone is far more likely to reduce shareholder value than to increase it. The premise of acquisition-minded corporations is that growth by acquisition can deliver enhanced shareholder value through upward-trending corporate revenues and earnings and a stock price that on average rises enough year after year to amply reward and please shareholders. Three types of acquisition candidates are usually of particular interest: (1) businesses that have bright growth prospects but are short on investment capital, (2) undervalued companies that can be acquired at a bargain price, and (3) struggling companies whose operations can be turned around with the aid of the parent company’s financial resources and managerial know-how.


               505. D
The success of a corporate strategy keyed to unrelated diversification is contingent upon corporate executives doing a superior job of identifying and acquiring new businesses that can produce consistently good earnings and returns on investment and turning around struggling companies with the aid of the parent company’s financial resources and managerial know-how.


               506. D
Corporate parenting refers to the role that a diversified corporation plays in nurturing its component businesses through the provision of top management expertise, disciplined control, financial resources, and other types of general resources and capabilities such as long-term planning systems, business development skills, management development processes, incentive systems, umbrella brands, and an internal capital market capability to allow judicious cross-business allocation of financial resources. The success of a corporate parenting strategy that is keyed to unrelated diversification is contingent upon corporate executives doing a superior job of identifying and acquiring new businesses that can produce consistently good earnings and returns on investment and turning around struggling companies with the aid of the parent company’s financial resources and managerial know-how.


               507. C
Unrelated diversification strategies have two important negatives that undercut the pluses: very demanding managerial requirements and limited competitive advantage potential due to the absence of cross-business strategic fit.


               508. D
The two major disadvantages of unrelated diversification are: (1) unrelated diversification requires that corporate executives rely on the skills and expertise of business-level managers to build competitive advantage and boost the performance of individual businesses and (2) without the competitive advantage potential of strategic-fit, consolidated performance of an unrelated group of businesses is unlikely to be better than the sum of what the individual business units could achieve independently in most instances.


               509. B
The greater the number of businesses a company is operating in and the more diverse those businesses are, the more difficult it is for corporate managers to: (1) stay abreast of what’s happening in each industry and each subsidiary; (2) pick business-unit heads having the requisite combination of managerial skills and know-how to drive gains in performance; (3) tell the difference between those strategic proposals of business-unit managers that are prudent and those that are risky or unlikely to succeed; (4) know what to do if a business unit stumbles and its results suddenly head downhill; and (5) “manage by the numbers”—that is, keep a close track on the financial and operating results of each subsidiary and assume that the heads of the various subsidiaries have most everything under control so long as the latest key financial and operating measures look good.


               510. B
Corporate parenting refers to the role that a diversified corporation plays in nurturing its component businesses through the provision of top management expertise, disciplined control, financial resources, and other types of general resources and capabilities such as long-term planning systems, business development skills, management development processes, incentive systems, umbrella brands, and an internal capital market capability to allow judicious cross-business allocation of financial resources. Such a strategy is more likely to succeed when the corporate parent is more able than other companies to boost the combined performance of its individual businesses through its high-level guidance, general oversight, and other corporate-level contributions.


               511. E
As opposed to restructuring an underperforming business or subsidiary, risk reduction, rapid growth, stabilization of earnings, and managerial motives tend to be misguided reasons for pursuing unrelated diversification to increase shareholder value. Management sometimes undertakes a strategy of unrelated diversification for the wrong reasons: (1) risk reduction by spreading the company’s investments over a set of diverse industries; (2) expectations for rapid or continuous growth; (3) earnings stabilization, that is, market downtrends in some of the company’s businesses will be partially offset by cyclical upswings in its other businesses; and (4) managerial motives, including the prospects for higher compensation—diversification for this reason alone is far more likely to reduce shareholder value than to increase it.


               512. E
Some diversified companies are really dominant-business enterprises. That is, one major “core” business accounts for 50 to 80 percent of total revenues and a collection of small related or unrelated businesses accounts for the remainder.


               513. E
Management sometimes undertakes a strategy of unrelated diversification for the wrong reasons: (1) risk reduction by spreading the company’s investments over a set of diverse industries; (2) expectations for rapid or continuous growth; (3) earnings stabilization, i.e. market downtrends in some of the company’s businesses will be partially offset by cyclical upswings in its other businesses; (4) managerial motives including the prospects for higher compensation—diversification for this reason alone is far more likely to reduce shareholder value than to increase it. The premise of acquisition-minded corporations is that growth by acquisition can deliver enhanced shareholder value through upward-trending corporate revenues and earnings and a stock price that on average rises enough year after year to amply reward and please shareholders. Three types of acquisition candidates are usually of particular interest: (1) businesses that have bright growth prospects but are short on investment capital, (2) undervalued companies that can be acquired at a bargain price, and (3) struggling companies whose operations can be turned around with the aid of the parent company’s financial resources and managerial know-how.


               514. D
The procedure for evaluating the pluses and minuses of a diversified company’s strategy and deciding what actions to take to improve the company’s performance involves six steps: (1) assessing the attractiveness of the industries the company has diversified into, (2) assessing the competitive strength of the company’s business units, (3) evaluating the extent of cross-business strategic fit along the value chains of the company’s various business units, (4) checking whether the firm’s resources fit the requirements of its present business lineup, (5) ranking the performance prospects of the businesses from best to worst and determining a priority for allocating resource, and (6) crafting new strategic moves to improve overall corporate performance.


               515. B
The procedure for evaluating the pluses and minuses of a diversified company’s strategy and deciding what actions to take to improve the company’s performance involves six steps: (1) assessing the attractiveness of the industries the company has diversified into, (2) assessing the competitive strength of the company’s business units, (3) evaluating the extent of cross-business strategic fit along the value chains of the company’s various business units, (4) checking whether the firm’s resources fit the requirements of its present business lineup, (5) ranking the performance prospects of the businesses from best to worst and determining a priority for allocating resource, and (6) crafting new strategic moves to improve overall corporate performance.


               516. E
The procedure for evaluating the pluses and minuses of a diversified company’s strategy and deciding what actions to take to improve the company’s performance involves six steps: (1) assessing the attractiveness of the industries the company has diversified into, (2) assessing the competitive strength of the company’s business units, (3) evaluating the extent of cross-business strategic fit along the value chains of the company’s various business units, (4) checking whether the firm’s resources fit the requirements of its present business lineup, (5) ranking the performance prospects of the businesses from best to worst and determining a priority for allocating resource, and (6) crafting new strategic moves to improve overall corporate performance.


               517. B
Calculating quantitative industry attractiveness scores for each industry helps in ranking the performance prospects of the businesses from best to worst and determining what the corporate parent’s priorities should be in allocating resources to its various businesses. A simple and reliable analytical tool for gauging industry attractiveness involves calculating quantitative industry attractiveness scores based upon the following nine dimensions: (1) market size and projected growth rate; (2) intensity of competition; (3) emerging opportunities and threats; (4) presence of cross-industry strategic fit; (5) resource requirements; (6) seasonal and cyclical factors; (7) social, political, regulatory, and environmental factors; (8) industry profitability; and (9) industry uncertainty and business risk. Those dimensions are first assigned numbers from 1 to 10 and are then weighted to reflect their relative importance.


               518. C
Evaluating industry attractiveness, evaluating business unit competitive strength, determining the competitive value of strategic fit in diversified companies, checking for resource fit, ranking business units and assigning a priority for resource allocation, and crafting new strategic moves to improve overall corporate performance are all important aspects for a diversified company’s strategy.


               519. A
The goal of calculating industry attractiveness scores is to gauge the long-term prospects for superior performance.


               520. E
The procedure for evaluating the pluses and minuses of a diversified company’s strategy and deciding what actions to take to improve the company’s performance involves the following: (1) selecting a set of industry attractiveness measures, (2) weighting the importance of each measure (with the sum of the weights adding to 1.0), (3) rating each industry on each attractiveness measure, (4) multiplying the industry ratings by the assigned weight to obtain a weighted rating, (5) adding the weighted ratings for each industry to obtain an overall industry attractiveness score, and (6) using the overall industry attractiveness scores to evaluate the attractiveness of all the industries, both individually and as a group. Two conditions are necessary for producing valid industry attractiveness scores using this method: (1) deciding on appropriate weights for the industry attractiveness measures and (2) possessing sufficient knowledge—particularly on the intensity of competition—to rate the industry on each attractiveness measure.


               521. B
Gauging the competitive strength of business units in a diversified company involves calculating quantitative industry attractiveness scores based upon the following eight dimensions: (1) relative market share, (2) costs relative to rivals’ costs, (3) products or services that satisfy buyers’ expectations, (4) ability to benefit from strategic fit with sibling portfolio businesses, (5) number and caliber of strategic alliances and collaborative partnerships, (6) brand image and reputation, (7) competitively valuable resources and capabilities, and (8) profitability relative to competitors. Quantitative measures of each business unit’s competitive strength can be then weighted and calculated using a procedure similar to that for measuring industry attractiveness.


               522. D
Doing an appraisal of each business unit’s strength and competitive position in its industry not only reveals its chances for industry success but also provides a basis for ranking the units from competitively strongest to weakest.


               523. B
Quantitative measures of each business unit’s competitive strength and market standing are weighted and calculated using a procedure similar to that for measuring industry attractiveness.


               524. B
Quantitative measures of each business unit’s competitive strength and market standing are weighted and calculated using a procedure similar to that for measuring industry attractiveness. If a diversified company’s business units all have competitive strength scores above five, it is fair to conclude that its business units are all fairly strong market contenders in their respective industries.


               525. A
See Figure 8.3. Using the nine-cell industry attractiveness-competitive strength matrix, a good case can be made for concentrating resources in those businesses that enjoy higher (versus average or lower) degrees of attractiveness and competitive strength, being very selective in making investments in businesses with intermediate positions on the grid, and withdrawing resources from businesses that are lower in attractiveness and strength—unless they offer exceptional profit or cash flow potential.


               526. C
See Figure 8.3. A good case can be made for concentrating resources in those businesses that enjoy higher degrees of attractiveness and competitive strength, being very selective in making investments in businesses with intermediate positions on the grid, and withdrawing resources from businesses that are lower in attractiveness and strength—unless they offer exceptional profit or cash flow potential.


               527. D
See Figure 8.3. The nine-cell attractiveness-strength matrix provides clear, strong logic for why a diversified company needs to consider both industry attractiveness and business strength in allocating resources and investment capital to its different businesses. A good case can be made for concentrating resources in those businesses that enjoy higher degrees of attractiveness and competitive strength, being very selective in making investments in businesses with intermediate positions on the grid, and withdrawing resources from businesses that are lower in attractiveness and strength unless they offer exceptional profit or cash flow potential. An equally good case can be made for withdrawing resources from subsidiaries in the three cells representing portfolio businesses that are lower in attractiveness and strength—unless they offer exceptional profit or cash flow potential. Businesses in the three cells in the lower right corner of the matrix typically are weak performers and have the lowest claim on corporate resources. Such businesses are typically good candidates for being divested or else managed in a manner calculated to squeeze out the maximum cash flows from operations.


               528. B
In a diversified company consisting of related businesses, the competitive advantage potential of cross-business strategic fit includes opportunities to: (1) transfer skills, technology, or intellectual capital from one business to another; (2) share use of a well-respected brand name across multiple product and/or service categories; and (3) combine the performance of certain activities, thereby reducing costs and capturing economies of scope.


               529. D
Checking the competitive advantage potential of cross-business strategic fit involves evaluating how much benefit a diversified company can gain from value chain matchups that present opportunities to: (1) transfer skills, technology, or intellectual capital from one business to another; (2) share use of a well-respected brand name across multiple product and/or service categories; and (3) combine performance of certain activities, thereby reducing costs and capturing economies of scope.


               530. B
A diversified company exhibits resource fit when its businesses add to a company’s overall mix of resources and capabilities and when the parent company has sufficient resources to support its entire group of businesses without spreading itself too thin.


               531. B
A diversified company exhibits resource fit when its businesses add to a company’s overall mix of resources and capabilities and when the parent company has sufficient resources to support its entire group of businesses without spreading itself too thin.


               532. A
One important dimension of resource fit concerns whether a diversified company can generate the internal cash flows sufficient to fund the capital requirements of its businesses, pay its dividends, meet its debt obligations, and otherwise remain financially healthy. While additional capital can usually be raised in financial markets, it is also important for a diversified firm to have a healthy internal capital market that can support the financial requirements of its business lineup.


               533. C
A cash cow generates operating cash flows over and above its internal requirements, thereby providing financial resources that may be used to invest in cash hogs, finance new acquisitions, fund share buyback programs, or pay dividends.


               534. B
A cash hog generates operating cash flows that are too small to fully fund its operations and growth; a cash hog must receive cash infusions from outside sources to cover its working capital and investment requirements.


               535. D
A cash cow generates operating cash flows over and above its internal requirements, whereas a cash hog generates operating cash flows that are too small to fully fund its operations and investment requirements.


               536. A
A portfolio approach to ensuring financial fit among a firm’s businesses is based on the fact that different businesses have different cash flow and investment characteristics. Factors to consider in assessing the financial resource fit for businesses in a diversified firm’s portfolio are the following: (1) Do individual businesses adequately contribute to achieving companywide performance targets without spreading resources too thinly? (2) Does the corporation possess adequate financial strength to fund its different businesses and maintain a healthy credit rating as well as possess the resources needed to be successful in each of its businesses?


               537. C
A business unit’s relative market share is defined as the ratio of its market share to the market share held by the largest rival firm in the industry, with market share measured in unit volume, not dollars.


               538. B
Factors to consider in assessing the financial resource fit for businesses in a diversified firm’s portfolio are: (1) Do individual businesses adequately contribute to achieving companywide performance targets without spreading resources too thinly? and (2) Does the corporation possess adequate financial strength to fund its different businesses and maintain a healthy credit rating as well as possess the resources needed to be successful in each of its businesses?


               539. E
To exhibit resource fit, it is not critical for a diversified company to check whether it has sufficient cash to fund the needs of its individual businesses and pay dividends to shareholders without having to borrow money.


               540. D
Business subsidiaries with the brightest profit and growth prospects, attractive positions in the nine-cell matrix, and solid strategic and resource fit should receive top priority for allocation of corporate resources.


               541. A
As shown in Figure 8.4, all of the answer choices except for allocating resources to businesses with dim or marginal prospects are options for allocating a diversified company’s financial resources. For top executives to make the best use of the available funds, they must steer resources to those businesses with the best opportunities and performance prospects and allocate little, if any, resources to businesses with marginal or dim prospects.


               542. B
Several motivating factors for broadening your company’s current business via diversification could be in play. One is sluggish growth that makes the potential revenue and profit boost of a newly acquired business look attractive. A second is the potential for transferring resources and capabilities to other related or complementary businesses. A third is rapidly changing conditions in one or more of a company’s core businesses, brought on by technological, legislative, or demographic changes. A fourth and very important, motivating factor for adding new businesses is to complement and strengthen the market position and competitive capabilities of one or more of your company’s present businesses. Some major drawbacks of diversification via acquisition, that is, why many fail to increase value, include unsuccessful integration of the acquired company into the culture, systems, and structure of the acquiring firm; high integration costs; and excessive acquisition premiums.


               543. E
See Figure 8.4. Strategic and financial options to improve a diversified company’s overall performance include: (1) sticking closely with the existing business lineup and pursuing the opportunities these businesses present, (2) broadening the company’s business scope by making new acquisitions in new industries, (3) divesting some businesses and retrenching to a narrower base of business operations, and (4) restructuring the company’s business lineup and putting a whole new face on the company’s business makeup. Corporate parents often end up selling businesses too late and at too low a price, sacrificing shareholder value.


               544. D
All of the reasons are true, except for the illogical answer of a cash hog supplying capital to cash cow businesses (in fact, it is the other way around). Recall that a diversified company exhibits resource fit when its businesses add to a company’s overall mix of resources and capabilities and when the parent company has sufficient resources to support its entire group of businesses without spreading itself too thin.


               545. A
A spin-off is an independent company created when a corporate parent divests a business either by selling shares to the public via an initial public offering or by distributing shares in the new company to shareholders of the corporate parent.


               546. A
The option of sticking with the current business lineup makes sense when the company’s present businesses offer attractive growth opportunities and can be counted on to generate good earnings and cash flows.


               547. E
See Figure 8.4. For top executives in a diversified company to make the best use of the available financial resources, they must steer resources to those businesses with the best opportunities and performance prospects and allocate little, if any, resources to businesses with marginal or dim prospects—this is why ranking the performance prospects of the various businesses from best to worst is so crucial. While evidence indicates that pruning businesses and narrowing a firm’s diversification base improves corporate performance, businesses compatible with the company’s revised diversification strategy need not be divested in a corporate restructuring effort.


               548. B
Evidence indicates that pruning businesses and thereby narrowing a firm’s diversification base in a smaller number of core businesses improves corporate performance.


               549. B
Sometimes retrenching to a narrower diversification base has to be considered because market conditions in a once-attractive industry have badly deteriorated. A business can become a prime candidate for divestiture because it lacks adequate strategic or resource fit, because it is a cash hog with questionable long-term potential, or because remedying its competitive weaknesses is too expensive relative to the likely gains in profitability. Sometimes a company acquires businesses that down the road just do not work out as expected even though management has tried its best.


               550. B
Corporate restructuring involves radically altering the business lineup by divesting businesses that lack strategic fit or are poor performers and acquiring new businesses that offer better promise for enhancing shareholder value.
Selling a business outright to another company is far and away the most frequently used option for divesting a business. But sometimes a business selected for divestiture has ample resources to compete successfully on its own. In such cases, a corporate parent may elect to spin the unwanted business off as a financially and managerially independent company, either by selling shares to the investing public via an initial public offering or by distributing shares in the new company to existing shareholders of the corporate parent.



               551. A
Corporate restructuring involves radically altering the business lineup by divesting businesses that lack strategic fit or are poor performers and acquiring new businesses that offer better promise for enhancing shareholder value.


               552. E
Several motivating factors for broadening Ross’s current business via diversification could be in play, but not the objective to increase top management compensation. One motivating factor is sluggish growth that makes the potential revenue and profit boost of a newly acquired business look attractive. A second is the potential for transferring resources and capabilities to other related or complementary businesses. A third is rapidly changing conditions in one or more of a company’s core businesses, brought on by technological, legislative, or demographic changes. A fourth and very important motivating factor for adding new businesses is to complement and strengthen the market position and competitive capabilities of one or more of Ross’s present businesses.


               553. A
An outstanding corporate parent: (1) provides high-level oversight and makes available other corporate resources, (2) allocates financial resources across the business portfolio (under certain circumstances), and (3) restructures underperforming acquisitions. Ideally, a diversified company will have sufficient financial resources to strengthen or grow its existing businesses, make any new acquisitions that are desirable, fund other promising business opportunities, pay off existing debt, and periodically increase dividend payments to shareholders and/or repurchase shares of stock. Divesting businesses with the weakest future prospects and businesses that lack adequate strategic fit and/or resource fit is also one of the best ways of generating additional funds for redeployment to businesses with better opportunities and better strategic and resource fit. However, purchasing competitively weak businesses or businesses in unattractive industries is highly unlikely to benefit the corporate parent.


               554. B
An outstanding corporate parent: (1) provides high-level oversight and makes available other corporate resources, (2) allocates financial resources across the business portfolio (under certain circumstances), and (3) restructures underperforming acquisitions. Ideally, a diversified company will have sufficient financial resources to strengthen or grow its existing businesses, make any new acquisitions that are desirable, fund other promising business opportunities, pay off existing debt, and periodically increase dividend payments to shareholders and/or repurchase shares of stock. Divesting businesses with the weakest future prospects and businesses that lack adequate strategic fit and/or resource fit is also one of the best ways of generating additional funds for redeployment to businesses with better opportunities and better strategic and resource fit. However, purchasing competitively weak businesses or businesses in unattractive industries is highly unlikely to benefit the corporate parent.


               555. C
The real question for Hershey is how much competitive value can be generated from its current and prospective strategic fits. Are the cost savings associated with economies of scope likely to give one or more individual Hershey businesses a cost-based advantage over its rivals? How much competitive value will come from the cross-business transfer of skills, technology, or intellectual capital or the sharing of competitive assets? Will leveraging Hershey’s potent umbrella brand or corporate image strengthen the businesses and increase sales significantly? Will cross-business collaboration to create new competitive capabilities lead to significant gains in performance? The greater the value of cross-business strategic fit in enhancing the performance of Hershey’s businesses, the more competitively powerful Hershey’s related diversification strategy will become and deliver superior value to its shareholders.


               556. A
A business unit’s relative market share is defined as the ratio of its market share to the market share held by the largest rival firm in the industry, with Samsung’s market share measured in unit volume, not dollars.


               557. B
VF Corporation’s top managers began to notice that different segments of their business had diverging management requirements, due to differing distribution channels, customer needs, and growth patterns. The solution was to restructure the company, which was characterized as very much a strategic move, since there was an absence of good strategic fit among these two different types of businesses. This is a prime example of a procedure for evaluating the pluses and minuses of a diversified company’s strategy, which involves six steps: assessing the attractiveness of the industries the company has diversified into, both individually and as a group; assessing the competitive strength of the company’s business units and drawing a nine-cell matrix to simultaneously portray industry attractiveness and business unit competitive strength; evaluating the extent of cross-business strategic fit along the value chains of the company’s various business units; checking whether the firm’s resources fit the requirements of its present business lineup; ranking the performance prospects of the businesses from best to worst and determining what the corporate parent’s priorities should be in allocating resources to its various businesses; and crafting new strategic moves to improve overall corporate performance.


               558. E
Combination related-unrelated diversification strategies have particular appeal for companies with a mix of valuable competitive assets, covering the spectrum from general to specialized resources and capabilities.


               559. C
These organizations are all examples of how moral and ethical lapses can be consequential. although most company managers are careful to ensure that a company’s strategy is within the bounds of what is legal, evidence indicates they are not always so careful to ensure that their strategies are within the bounds of what is considered ethical. Among the consequences of crafting strategies that cannot pass the test of moral scrutiny are manifested in sharp drops in stock price that cost shareholders billions of dollars, devastating public relations hits, sizeable fines, and criminal indictments and convictions of company executives. For example, to meet demanding profit targets, Wells Fargo put such pressure on its employees to hit sales quotas that many employees responded by fraudulently opening customer accounts. In 2017, after the practices came to light, the bank was forced to return $2.6 million to customers and pay $186 million in fines to the government. Wells Fargo’s reputation took a big hit, its stock priced plummeted, and its CEO lost his job.


               560. D
Self-dealing occurs when managers like Edward Shin take advantage of their position to further their own private interests rather than those of the company.


               561. E
See Figure 9.1. Shareholders suffer major damage when a company’s unethical behavior is discovered and punished. Making amends for unethical business conduct is costly, and it takes years to rehabilitate a tarnished company reputation.


               562. B
Although exposing children to hazardous work and long work hours is unquestionably deplorable, the fact remains that poverty-stricken families in many poor countries cannot subsist without the work efforts of young family members; sending their children to school instead of having them work is not a realistic option. If such children are not permitted to work (especially those in the 12 to 17 age group)—due to pressures imposed by activist groups in industrialized nations—they may be forced to go out on the streets begging or to seek work in parts of the “underground” economy such as drug trafficking and prostitution.


               563. D
Ethical principles in business are not materially different from ethical principles in general.


               564. B
The three major drivers of unethical strategies and unethical business behavior are: (1) faulty oversight, (2) heavy pressures on managers to meet performance targets, and (3) company cultures that place profits and performance ahead of ethical behavior. There is generally faulty oversight of executives driven by enlightened self-interest, status, power, greed, arrogance and the like. When key personnel come under pressure to do whatever it takes to meet analysts’ expectations or other performance targets, rules may be stretched and ethical boundaries breached. Finally, cultural pressures to utilize unethical means if circumstances become challenging can prompt otherwise honorable people to behave unethically.


               565. D
According to integrated social contracts theory, adherence to universal or “first-order” ethical norms should always take precedence over local or “second-order” norms. In this case, the universal ethical norm is adhering to honesty, and, therefore, Shannon and Ian should report the owners to the Internal Revenue Service.


               566. A
Common moral agreement about right and wrong actions and behaviors across multiple cultures and countries gives rise to universal ethical standards that apply to members of all societies, all companies, and all businesspeople. Thus, adherents to the school of ethical universalism maintain that it is entirely appropriate to expect all businesspeople to conform to these universal ethical standards.


               567. B
See Figure 9.1. Shareholders suffer major damage when a company’s unethical behavior is discovered and punished. Making amends for unethical business conduct is costly, and it takes years to rehabilitate a tarnished company reputation.


               568. E
See Figure 9.1 that depicts the visible costs, internal administrative costs, and intangible or less visible costs that could be incurred when ethical wrongdoing is discovered and punished. Costs of taking corrective actions are considered internal administrative costs, while the other answer choices represent visible costs. Making amends for unethical business conduct is costly, and it takes years to rehabilitate a tarnished company reputation.


               569. D
See Figure 9.1 that depicts the visible costs, internal administrative costs, and intangible or less visible costs that could be incurred when ethical wrongdoing is discovered and punished. Lower stock prices are among the visible costs that companies may incur when ethical wrongdoing is discovered and punished. Costs of taking corrective actions, costs of providing remedial education and ethics training to company personnel, and legal and investigative costs are considered internal administrative costs, while the civil penalties are considered to be less visible costs. Making amends for unethical business conduct is costly, and it takes years to rehabilitate a tarnished company reputation.


               570. B
See Figure 9.1 that depicts the visible costs, internal administrative costs, and intangible or less visible costs that could be incurred when ethical wrongdoing is discovered and punished. Costs of taking corrective actions, costs of providing remedial education and ethics training to company personnel, and legal and investigative costs are considered internal administrative costs. Hits to company reputation and employee productivity are considered to be less visible or intangible costs. Making amends for unethical business conduct is costly, and it takes years to rehabilitate a tarnished company reputation.


               571. E
According to integrated social contracts theory, adherence to universal or “first-order” ethical norms should always take precedence over local or “second-order” norms. After Wells Fargo’s fraudulent practices came to light, the bank was forced to return $2.6 million to customers and pay $186 million in fines to the government. Wells Fargo’s reputation took a big hit, its stock price plummeted, and its CEO lost his job.


               572. A
Legal and investigative costs are listed in Figure 9.1 as internal administrative costs and hence are not intangible costs.


               573. B
Ethical norms considered to be universal include honesty, trustworthiness, respecting the rights of others, practicing the Golden Rule, and avoiding unnecessary harm to workers or to the users of a company’s product or service.


               574. E
The moral case for why businesses should act in a manner that benefits all of the company’s stakeholders—not just shareholders—boils down to “it’s the right thing to do.” Ordinary decency, civic-mindedness, and contributions to society’s well-being should be expected of any business. In companies with a cosmetic approach to ethics, any strategy-ethics linkage stems mainly from a desire to avoid the risk of embarrassment and possible disciplinary action for approving a strategic initiative that is deemed by society to be unethical and perhaps illegal.


               575. C
Ethical strategy-making is generally the product of company managers who are of strong moral character. Companies with high ethical principles usually create and follow corporate code of ethics and strong ethics compliance. These companies are genuinely committed to upholding corporate values and ethical business principles, even when it comes to implementing responses to perceived violations of those policies.


               576. A
Ethical universalism considers all norms to be common to all cultures and societies, and that those norms comprise honesty, trustworthiness, respecting the rights of others, practicing the Golden Rule, and avoiding unnecessary harm to workers or to the users of a company’s product or service.


               577. A
Some ethical standards likely vary or diverge from one country to another because of differences in religious beliefs, social customs, and prevailing political and economic doctrines. Ethical relativism holds that when there are national or cross-cultural differences in what is deemed an ethical or unethical business situation, it is appropriate for local moral standards to take precedence over what the ethical standards may be in a company’s home market. Yet codes of conduct based upon ethical relativism can be ethically dangerous by creating a maze of conflicting ethical standards for multinational companies.


               578. B
Ethical relativism holds that when there are national or cross-cultural differences in what is deemed an ethical or unethical business situation, it is appropriate for local moral standards to take precedence over what the ethical standards may be in a company’s home market.


               579. C
Ethical relativism holds that when there are national or cross-cultural differences in what is deemed an ethical or unethical business situation, it is appropriate for local moral standards to take precedence over what the ethical standards may be in a company’s home market.


               580. B
A company that adopts the principle of ethical relativism and holds company personnel to local ethical standards necessarily assumes that what prevails as local morality is an adequate guide to ethical behavior. This can be ethically dangerous; it leads to the conclusion that if a country’s culture generally accepts bribery or environmental degradation or exposing workers to dangerous conditions, then managers working in that country are free to engage in such activities. Adopting such a position places a company in a perilous position if it is required to defend these activities to its stakeholders in countries with higher ethical expectations.


               581. C
The integrative social contracts theory suggests that there is a “social contract” by which managers in all situations have a duty to serve that provides that “first-order” universal ethical norms always take precedence over “second-order” local ethical norms in circumstances in which local ethical norms are more permissive. That is, universal ethical principles based on collective views of multiple cultures combine to form a “social contract” that all employees in all country markets have a duty to observe. Within the boundaries of this social contract, there is room for host-country cultures to exert some influence in setting their own moral and ethical standards. Integrative social contracts theory thus offers a middle ground between ethical universalism and ethical relativism, and can provide managers in multinational companies with guidance in resolving cross-country ethical differences.


               582. B
Integrative social contracts theory suggests that there is a “social contract” by which managers in all situations have a duty to serve that provides that “first-order” universal ethical norms always take precedence over “second-order” local ethical norms in circumstances in which local ethical norms are more permissive. That is, universal ethical principles based on collective views of multiple cultures combine to form a “social contract” that all employees in all country markets have a duty to observe. Within the boundaries of this social contract, there is room for host-country cultures to exert some influence in setting their own moral and ethical standards. Integrative social contracts theory thus offers a middle ground between ethical universalism and ethical relativism, and can provide managers in multinational companies with guidance in resolving cross-country ethical differences.


               583. D
Integrative social contracts theory: (1) suggests that there is a “social contract” by which managers in all situations have a duty to serve and (2) posits that “first-order” universal ethical norms always take precedence over “second-order” local ethical norms in circumstances in which local ethical norms are more permissive. That is, universal ethical principles based on collective views of multiple cultures combine to form a “social contract” that all employees in all country markets have a duty to observe. Within the boundaries of this social contract, there is room for host-country cultures to exert some influence in setting their own moral and ethical standards. Integrative social contracts theory thus offers a middle ground between ethical universalism and ethical relativism, and can provide managers in multinational companies with guidance in resolving cross-country ethical differences.


               584. D
The multinational auto manufacturer has incurred intangible costs due to loss of reputation and credibility, and incurred resulting visible costs due to the sharp declines in customer patronage and share prices.


               585. C
The pharmaceutical company has incurred intangible costs due to loss of reputation and credibility due to allegations of price gouging, and incurred resulting visible costs due to the sharp share price decline and forced departure of its CEO.


               586. C
Codes of conduct based on ethical relativism can be ethically problematic for multinational companies by creating a maze of conflicting ethical standards. A particularly thorny area facing multinational companies is the degree of cross-country variability in paying bribes. In many countries in eastern Europe, Africa, Latin America, and Asia, it is customary to pay bribes to government officials in order to win a government contract, obtain a license or permit, or facilitate an administrative ruling. Bribing being “customary” in a locality is thus often cited as a justification for indulging in this dubious practice.


               587. D
The exercise of corporate social responsibility is also good business because it can lead to (1) increased buyer patronage; (2) reduced risk of reputation-damaging incidents; (3) internal benefits such as improved efficiency and workforce retention; (4) shareholder benefits, based on apparent correlations between corporate social responsibility and stock price and other measures of financial performance. Shareholders are likely to view the business case for social responsibility as a strong one, even though they certainly have a right to be concerned about whether the time and money their company spends to carry out its social responsibility strategy outweigh the benefits and reduce the bottom line by an unjustified amount. Corporate social responsibility encompasses the pursuit of market share, revenues, profits, etc. to the extent the other principles are not compromised.


               588. A
Numerous companies exert extra effort to enhance the quality of life for their employees at work and at home. This can include onsite day care, flexible work schedules, workplace exercise facilities, special leaves for employees to care for sick family members, work-at-home opportunities, career development programs and education opportunities, special safety programs, and the like.


               589. E
CSR theory states that it is every company’s duty to operate in an honorable manner, provide good working conditions for employees, encourage workforce diversity, be a good steward of the environment, and actively work to better the quality of life in the local communities where it operates and in society at large.


               590. C
Good corporate citizenship involves: (1) efforts to employ an ethical strategy and observe ethical principles in operating the business; (2) making charitable contributions, supporting community service endeavors, engaging in broader philanthropic initiatives, and reaching out to make a difference in the lives of the disadvantaged; (3) actions to protect the environment and, in particular, to minimize or eliminate any adverse impact on the environment stemming from the company’s own business activities; (4) actions to create a work environment that enhances the quality of life for employees; and (5) actions to build a workforce that is diverse with respect to gender, race, national origin, and other aspects that different people bring to the workplace. Actions to look out exclusively for the best interests of shareholders are not on that menu.


               591. D
Both Uber (see Concepts & Connections 9.1) and WeWork apparently were plagued by toxic workplace cultures that increased the risk of reputation-damaging incidents. The exercise of corporate social responsibility is considered good business because it can lead to: (1) increased buyer patronage; (2) reduced risk of reputation-damaging incidents; (3) internal benefits such as improved efficiency and workforce retention; and (4) shareholder benefits, based on apparent correlations between CSR and stock price and other measures of financial performance. Shareholders are likely to view the business case for social responsibility as a strong one, even though they certainly have a right to be concerned about whether the time and money their company spends to carry out its social responsibility strategy outweigh the benefits and reduce the bottom line by an unjustified amount. CSR encompasses the pursuit of market share, revenues, profits, etc. to the extent the other principles are not compromised.


               592. B
The essence of socially responsible business behavior by businesses is that a company should balance strategic actions to benefit shareholders against the duty to be a good corporate citizen.


               593. C
The underlying thesis is that company managers should display a social conscience in operating the business and specifically take into account how management decisions and company actions affect the well-being of employees, local communities, the environment, and society at large.


               594. A
It is every company’s duty to operate in an honorable manner, provide good working conditions for employees, encourage workforce diversity, be a good steward of the environment, and actively work to better the quality of life in the local communities where it operates and in society at large. The text cites several examples of corporations that go beyond meeting society’s expectations for ethical conduct and responsible business behavior to foster social benefit and balance the needs of multiple stakeholders.


               595. C
Environmental sustainability involves deliberate actions to protect the environment, provide for the longevity of natural resources, maintain ecological support systems for future generations, and guard against the ultimate endangerment of the planet.


               596. D
Sustainability initiatives undertaken by companies are directed at improving the company’s triple-bottom-line: its performance on economic, environment, and social metrics.


               597. E
A company’s environmental sustainability strategy consists of its deliberate actions to protect the environment, provide for the longevity of natural resources, maintain ecological support systems for future generations, and guard against ultimate endangerment of the planet.


               598. D
Corporate social responsibility (CSR) refers to a company’s duty to operate in an honorable manner, provide good working conditions for employees, encourage workforce diversity, be a good steward of the environment, and actively work to better the quality of life in the local communities where it operates and in society at large.


               599. E
It is every company’s duty to operate in an honorable manner, provide good working conditions for employees, encourage workforce diversity, be a good steward of the environment, and actively work to better the quality of life in the local communities where it operates and in society at large. The text cites several examples of corporations that go beyond meeting society’s expectations for ethical conduct and responsible business behavior on the part of corporations that foster social benefit and balance the needs of multiple stakeholders.


               600. B
Good corporate citizens are socially responsible for meeting legal, ethical and economic responsibilities imposed by shareholders. They aim at improving standards of communities in which they operate, while still sustaining profitability for stakeholders.


               601. B
A strong visible social responsibility or environmental sustainability strategy gives a company like Two Dog Night Creamery an edge in appealing to consumers who prefer to do business with companies that are good corporate citizens thereby increasing buyer patronage. Lowering costs and enhancing employee recruiting and workforce retention, creating opportunities for revenue enhancement and best long-term profits for shareholders, and reducing her exposure to the risk of reputation-damaging incidents are also elements of CSR and environmentally sustainable business practices. Shortening the supply chain is not considered a strategy to advance CSR and environmental sustainability.


               602. B
The jury is still out on the correlation between corporate social responsibility and stock price performance and competitive advantage. Corporate social agendas that address generic social issues may help boost a company’s reputation, but it is still not yet conclusive whether or not they contribute to improving its competitive strength in the marketplace. For example, a two-year study of leading companies found that improving environmental compliance and developing environmentally friendly products enhance earnings per share, profitability, and the likelihood of winning contracts. Also, the stock prices of companies that rate high on social and environmental performance criteria have been found to perform 35 to 45 percent better than the average of the 2,500 companies comprising the Dow Jones Global Index. Finally, a review of some 135 studies indicated there is a positive, but small, correlation between good corporate behavior and good financial performance; only 2 percent of the studies showed that dedicating corporate resources to social responsibility harmed the interests of shareholders.


               603. E
The essence of the business case for why your company or any company should engage in socially responsible actions and environmentally sustainable business practices boils down to, “It’s the right thing to do.” Ordinary decency, civic-mindedness, and contributions to society’s well-being should be expected of any business. In today’s social and political climate, most business leaders can be expected to acknowledge that socially responsible actions are important and that businesses have a duty to be good corporate citizens. But there is a complementary school of thought that business operates on the basis of an implied social contract with the members of society. According to this contract, society grants a business the right to conduct its business affairs and agrees not to unreasonably restrain its pursuit of a fair profit for the goods or services it sells. In return for this “license to operate,” a business is obligated to act as a responsible citizen, do its fair share to promote the general welfare, and avoid doing any harm. Such a view clearly puts a moral burden on a company to operate honorably, provide good working conditions to employees, be a good environmental steward, and display good corporate citizenship.


               604. B
See Figure 9.2. Triple-bottom-line reporting is emerging as an increasingly important way for companies to make the results of their CSR strategies apparent to stakeholders and for stakeholders to hold companies accountable for their impact on society. The use of standard reporting frameworks and metrics, such as those developed by the Global Reporting Initiative, promotes greater transparency and facilitates benchmarking CSR efforts across firms and industries.


               605. D
There are several good business reasons why the exercise of corporate social responsibility is also good business: (1) increased buyer patronage; (2) reducing the risk of reputation-damaging incidents; (3) internal benefits such as improved efficiency and workforce retention; (4) shareholder benefits, based on apparent correlations between CSR and stock price and other measures of financial performance. Corporate irresponsibility is likely to result in the opposite result, in the case of CrossFit. Shareholders are likely to view the business case for Glassman’s removal as CEO as a strong one, even though they certainly have a right to be concerned about whether the time and money their company spends in the future to repair its reputation and pursue a social responsibility strategy outweighs the benefits and reduces the bottom line by an unjustified amount.


               606. A
Every corporation, Pinterest included, should have a strong independent board of directors that (1) is well-informed about the company’s performance, (2) guides and judges the CEO and other top executives, (3) has the courage to curb management actions the board believes are inappropriate or unduly risky, (4) certifies to shareholders that the CEO is doing what the board expects, (5) provides insight and advice to management, and (6) is intensely involved in debating the pros and cons of key decisions and actions.


               607. E
Sephora’s board of directors has four important obligations to fulfill: (1) oversee the company’s financial accounting and financial reporting practices; (2) critically appraise the company’s direction, strategy, and business approaches; (3) evaluate the caliber of senior executives’ strategic leadership skills; and (4) institute a compensation plan for top executives that rewards them for actions and results that serve shareholder interests.


               608. D
Although senior managers have the lead responsibility for crafting and executing a company’s strategy, it is the duty of a company’s board of directors to exercise strong oversight and see that management performs the various tasks involved in each of the five stages of the strategy-making, strategy-executing process in a manner that best serves the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders.


               609. C
See Concepts & Connections 10.2. Zara, the world’s largest fashion retailer, has managed to create competitive advantage in every level of strategy execution by tightly aligning design, production, advertising, and real estate with the overall strategy of fast fashion: extremely fast and extremely flexible. Zara’s strategy is clever, but by no means unique. The company’s competitive advantage is in strategy execution. Every step of Zara’s value-chain execution is geared toward putting fashionable clothes in stores quickly, realizing high turnover, and strategically driving traffic. Zara also excels at driving traffic to stores. First, the small lot sizes and frequent shipments (up to twice a week per store) drive customers to visit often and purchase quickly. Zara shoppers average 17 visits per year, versus four to five for The Gap.


               610. E
Successful strategy execution depends on management’s ability to direct organizational change and do a good job of allocating resources, building and strengthening competitive capabilities, instituting strategy-supportive policies, improving processes and systems, motivating and rewarding people, creating and nurturing a strategy-supportive culture, and consistently meeting or beating performance targets.


               611. E
Good strategy execution requires a team effort. All managers have strategy execution responsibility in their areas of authority, and all employees are active participants in the strategy execution. In this process, it is middle- and lower-level managers who must see to it that front-line employees and work groups competently perform the strategy-critical activities that allow companywide performance targets to be met. Strategy execution requires every manager to think through the answer to the questions “What does my area have to do to implement its part of the strategic plan, and what should I do to get these things accomplished effectively and efficiently?”


               612. B
Good strategy execution requires a team effort. All managers have strategy-executing responsibility in their areas of authority, and all employees are active participants in the strategy execution process.


               613. D
See Concepts & Connections 10.2. Zara’s managerial actions to develop core competencies and competitive capabilities generally take one of two forms: either strengthening the company’s base of skills, knowledge, and experience or coordinating and integrating the efforts of the various work groups and departments.


               614. B
See Figure 10.1. Ensuring that policies and procedures facilitate rather than impede effective strategy execution—enforcing consistency, supporting change, and promoting a can-do work climate—is one of the major tasks in the strategy execution process.


               615. E
Simple organizational structures are typically employed by small firms and entrepreneurial startups because these structures characteristically entail low administrative costs, ease of coordination, flexibility, and adaptability. As an organization grows, however, the simple structural form becomes inadequate to the demands that come with size and complexity, and can restrict cross-business collaboration as well as increase management workload.


               616. D
The following three types of organization-building actions are paramount: (1) staffing the organization—putting together a strong management team and recruiting and retaining employees with the needed experience, technical skills, and intellectual capital; (2) acquiring, developing, and strengthening strategy-supportive resources and capabilities—accumulating the required resources, developing proficiencies in performing strategy-critical value-chain activities, and updating them to match changing market conditions and customer expectations; and (3) structuring the organization and work effort—organizing value-chain activities and business processes, establishing lines of authority and reporting relationships, and deciding how much decision-making authority to push down to lower-level managers and front-line employees.


               617. A
Building an organization entails staffing the organization to build the capabilities, people, and structure needed to execute the strategy successfully.


               618. C
See Illustration Capsule 10.1. Hallmarks of Deloitte’s robust learning and development programs do not specifically include punishment for managerial lapses and deficiencies.


               619. D
When building a management team, the most important consideration is to fill key managerial slots with people who are good at figuring out what needs to be done and skilled in “making it happen” and delivering good results.


               620. B
The overriding aim in building a management team should be to assemble a critical mass of talented managers who can function as agents of change and further the cause of first-rate strategy execution.


               621. B
The quality of an organization’s people is always an essential ingredient of successful strategy execution—knowledgeable, engaged employees are a company’s best source of creative ideas for the nuts-and-bolts operating improvements that lead to operating excellence.


               622. A
The quality of an organization’s people is always an essential ingredient of successful strategy execution—knowledgeable, engaged employees are a company’s best source of creative ideas for the nuts-and-bolts operating improvements that lead to operating excellence.


               623. C
Tactics common among companies dedicated to staffing jobs with the best people they can find include: (1) putting forth considerable effort in screening and evaluating job applicants—selecting only those with suitable skill sets, energy, initiative, judgment, aptitudes for learning, and adaptability to the company’s culture; (2) investing in training programs that continue throughout employees’ careers; (3) providing promising employees with challenging, interesting, and skill-stretching assignments; (4) rotating people through jobs that span functional and geographic boundaries; (5) striving to retain talented, high-performing employees via promotions, salary increases, performance bonuses, stock options and equity ownership, fringe benefit packages, and other perks; and (6) coaching average performers to improve their skills and capabilities, while weeding out underperformers and benchwarmers. So, all of the choices except weeding out the bottom 20 percent are logical and necessary ways of staffing with the best personnel.


               624. B
Building and strengthening competitively valuable resources and capabilities can involve: (1) internal development such as R&D, (2) acquiring capabilities through mergers and acquisitions, and (3) accessing capabilities via collaborative partnerships. Because the process of building and strengthening competitively valuable resources and capabilities is incremental, the first step is to develop the ability to do something, however imperfectly or inefficiently. This entails selecting people with the requisite skills and experience, upgrading or expanding individual abilities as needed, and then molding the efforts of individuals into a collaborative effort to create an organizational ability. Shifting from decentralized to centralized decision making in order to give senior executives more authority and control in driving cultural change would not necessarily be strategy-supportive for Unilever.


               625. B
It is important for management to build its organization structure around proficient performance of these activities, making them the centerpieces or main building blocks on the organization chart.


               626. D
The rationale for making strategy-critical activities the main building blocks in structuring a business is compelling: if activities crucial to strategic success are to have the resources, decision-making influence, and organizational impact they need, they have to be centerpieces in the organizational scheme.


               627. B
It is most common for companies engaged in a single line of business to utilize a functional (or departmental) organizational structure that organizes strategy-critical activities into distinct functional, product, geographic, process, or customer groups.


               628. A
It is most common for companies engaged in a single line of business to utilize a functional (or departmental) organizational structure that organizes strategy-critical activities into distinct functional, product, geographic, process, or customer groups.


               629. A
See Figure 10.1. Despite the need to tailor a company’s strategy-executing approaches to the particulars of the situation at hand, certain managerial bases must be covered no matter what the circumstances. This includes tying rewards and incentives directly to the achievement of strategic and financial targets.


               630. C
Decentralized decision making means that the managers of each organizational unit are delegated lead responsibility for deciding how best to execute strategy. The ultimate goal of decentralized decision making is to put decision-making authority in the hands of those persons or teams closest to and most knowledgeable about the situation.


               631. A
The chief advantage of decentralized decision making is to put decision-making authority in the hands of those persons or teams closest to and most knowledgeable about the situation.


               632. B
A company’s capabilities must be continually refreshed and renewed to remain aligned with changing customer expectations, altered competitive conditions, and new strategic initiatives. It is generally much easier and less time-consuming to update and remodel a company’s existing capabilities as external conditions and company strategy change than it is to create them from scratch. Maintaining capabilities in top form may simply require exercising them continually and fine-tuning them as necessary.


               633. E
In a highly centralized organization structure, top executives retain authority for most strategic and operating decisions and keep a tight rein on business-unit heads, department heads, and the managers of key operating units; comparatively little discretionary authority is granted to front-line supervisors and rank-and-file employees. The command-and-control paradigm of centralized structures is based on the underlying assumptions that front-line personnel have neither the time nor the inclination to direct and properly control the work they are performing and that they lack the knowledge and judgment to make wise decisions about how best to do it. Primary disadvantages of centralized organizational structure include (1) lengthens response times by those closest to the market conditions because they must seek approval for their actions; (2) does not encourage responsibility among lower-level managers and rank-and-file employees; and (3) discourages lower-level managers and rank-and-file employees from exercising any initiative.


               634. B
Building an organization capable of good strategy execution also relies on an organizational structure that lays out lines of authority and reporting relationships in a manner that supports the company’s key strategic initiatives. The best approach to settling on an organizational structure is to first consider the key value-chain activities that deliver value to the customer. While there are few hard-and-fast rules for organizing the work effort to support good strategy execution, there is one: A firm’s organizational structure should be matched to the particular requirements of implementing the firm’s strategy. The ultimate goal of decentralized decision making is to put decision-making authority in the hands of those persons or teams closest to and most knowledgeable about the situation.


               635. A
Making the organization sluggish in responding to changing conditions is one of the major disadvantages of a centralized “command-and-control” organizational structure.


               636. A
A change in strategy nearly always calls for budget reallocations and resource-shifting. Previously important units, now having a lesser role in the new strategy, may need downsizing. Units that now have a bigger strategic role may require above-average increases in their budget allocations to afford more people, new equipment, and/or additional facilities. Top managers must be deeply involved in reviewing budget proposals, directing the proper amounts of resources to strategy-critical organization units, and exercising their power to put enough resources behind new strategic initiatives to make things happen, and they have to make the tough decisions to kill projects and activities that are no longer justified.


               637. C
Delegating authority to subordinate managers and rank-and-file employees encourages them to take responsibility and exercise initiative, but this can best be accomplished by having closely related activities report to a single executive who has the authority and organizational clout to coordinate, integrate, and arrange for the cooperation of units under their supervision It shortens organizational response times to market changes and spurs new ideas, creative thinking, innovation, and greater involvement on the part of all company personnel. In worker-empowered structures, jobs can be defined more broadly, several tasks can be integrated into a single job, and people can direct their own work.


               638. C
A change in strategy nearly always calls for budget reallocations and resource-shifting. Previously important units, now having a lesser role in the new strategy, may need downsizing. Units that now have a bigger strategic role may require above-average increases in their budget allocations to afford more people, new equipment, and/or additional facilities.


               639. A
Prescribe enough policies to place boundaries on employees’ actions; then empower them to act within these boundaries in whatever way they think makes sense.


               640. B
Good strategy execution nearly always entails an ability to replicate product quality and the caliber of customer service at every location where the company does business. Policies and procedures serve to standardize the way that activities are performed. This can be important for ensuring the quality and reliability of the strategy execution process. It helps align and coordinate the strategy execution efforts of individuals and groups throughout the organization. Domino’s Pizza promotes the creation of a work climate that facilitates good strategy execution by ensuring consistency in service behavior patterns. Variance in product quality at Pizza Hut outlets goes against the norms of good strategy execution. Moreover, in case of good strategy execution, a company’s policies and procedures provide a set of well-honed routines for running the company and executing the strategy. Therefore, the policy documents of Boston Pizza, RoundTable Pizza, and Little Caesar’s Pizza are not in line with the norms of good strategy execution.


               641. E
Despite its slogan of “radical” transparency and commitment to sustainability, Everlane has demonstrated a mixed track record on the 10 managerial tasks. Ten managerial tasks are part of every company effort to execute strategy: (1) staffing the organization with the right people, (2) developing and augmenting the necessary resources and organizational capabilities, (3) creating a supportive organizational structure, (4) allocating sufficient resources (budgetary and otherwise), (5) instituting supportive policies and procedures, (6) adopting processes for continuous improvement, (7) installing systems that enable proficient company operations, (8) tying incentives to the achievement of desired targets, (9) instilling the right corporate culture, and (10) exercising the leadership needed to propel strategy execution forward. Everlane’s top management has failed to create and nurture a culture that supports good strategy execution and does not provide nurturing career growth opportunities and perks for its remote customer experience team that would be supportive of the staffing effort.


               642. C
Tactics common among companies dedicated to staffing jobs with the best people they can find include: (1) putting forth considerable effort in screening and evaluating job applicants—selecting only those with suitable skill sets, energy, initiative, judgment, aptitudes for learning, and adaptability to the company’s culture; (2) investing in training programs that continue throughout employees’ careers; (3) providing promising employees with challenging, interesting, and skill-stretching assignments; (4) rotating people through jobs that span functional and geographic boundaries; (5) striving to retain talented, high-performing employees via promotions, salary increases, performance bonuses, stock options and equity ownership, fringe benefit packages, and other perks; and (6) coaching average performers to improve their skills and capabilities, while weeding out underperformers and benchwarmers. So, all of the above choices except hiring only college graduates with high GPAs who are also below the age of 35, are logical and necessary ways of staffing with the best personnel.


               643. E
Business process reengineering and other continuous improvement efforts such as TQM and Six Sigma all aim at operating excellence in all value-chain activities, improved efficiency, better product quality, and greater customer satisfaction.


               644. B
Business process reengineering involves pulling the pieces of strategy-critical activities out of different departments and unifying their performance in a single department or cross-functional work group.


               645. A
Business process reengineering involves pulling the pieces of strategy-critical activities out of different departments and unifying their performance in a single department or cross-functional work group.


               646. A
Total quality management (TQM) is a philosophy of managing a set of business practices that emphasizes continuous improvement in all phases of operations, 100 percent accuracy in performing tasks, involvement and empowerment of employees at all levels, team-based work design, benchmarking, and total customer satisfaction.


               647. E
Business process reengineering and other continuous improvement efforts such as variable reduction analyses, TQM, and Six Sigma aim at operating excellence in all value-chain activities, improved efficiency, better product quality, and greater customer satisfaction. A blended approach to Six Sigma implementation that is gaining in popularity pursues incremental improvements in operating efficiency, while R&D and other processes that allow the company to develop new ways of offering value to customers are given freer rein. Managers of these ambidextrous organizations are adept at employing continuous improvement in operating processes but allowing R&D to operate under a set of rules that allows for exploration and the development of breakthrough innovations. Strategic group mapping, an aid in examining what strategic groups exist, identifying the companies within each group, and so forth, is not an approach used by companies to foster continuous improvement.


               648. E
Business process reengineering and other continuous improvement efforts such as variable reduction analyses, TQM and Six Sigma all aim at operating excellence in all value-chain activities, improved efficiency, better product quality, and greater customer satisfaction. A blended approach to Six Sigma implementation that is gaining in popularity pursues incremental improvements in operating efficiency, while R&D and other processes that allow the company to develop new ways of offering value to customers are given freer rein. Managers of these ambidextrous organizations are adept at employing continuous improvement in operating processes but allowing R&D to operate under a set of rules that allows for exploration and the development of breakthrough innovations.


               649. C
A blended approach to Six Sigma implementation that is gaining in popularity pursues incremental improvements in operating efficiency, while R&D and other processes that allow the company to develop new ways of offering value to customers are given more free rein. Managers of these ambidextrous organizations are adept at employing continuous improvement in operating processes but allowing R&D to operate under a set of rules that allows for the development of breakthrough innovations.


               650. C
Six Sigma quality control consists of a disciplined, statistics-based system aimed at producing not more than 3.4 defects per million iterations for any business process—from manufacturing to customer transactions.


               651. B
The statistical thinking underlying Six Sigma is based on the following three principles: All work is a process, all processes have variability, and all processes create data that explain variability.


               652. B
Benchmarking, best practices, TQM, Six Sigma, and business process reengineering are some tools and methods to promote operating excellence in performing value-chain activities and further the cause of good strategy execution. Neither strategic resource training, nor standard industry techniques, nor competitor strength matrix techniques are used to promote operating excellence.


               653. A
The Six Sigma process of define, measure, analyze, improve and control (DMAIC) is an improvement system for existing processes falling below specification. The essence of Six Sigma is to reduce variability in processes.


               654. D
Six Sigma programs utilize advanced statistical methods to improve quality by reducing defects and variability in the performance of business processes. To address the suboptimal performance problems that can arise from this type of situation, a company can reengineer the work effort, pulling the pieces of an activity out of different departments and creating a single department or cross-functional work group to take charge of the whole process. The use of cross-functional teams has been popularized by the practice of business process reengineering, which involves radically redesigning and streamlining the workflow. Froedtert Hospital in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, used Six Sigma to improve the accuracy of administering the proper drug doses to patients.


               655. C
An essential difference between business process reengineering and continuous improvement programs such as TQM or Six Sigma is that reengineering aims at quantum gains on the order of 30 to 50 percent or more, whereas total quality programs stress incremental progress—striving for inch-by-inch gains again and again in a never-ending stream.


               656. E
State-of-the-art operating systems, information systems, and real-time data are integral to competent strategy execution and operating excellence. Company strategies and value-creating internal processes can’t be executed well without a number of installed internal operating systems, which entail: (1) all key strategic performance indicators and (2) information systems consisting of data on customers, employees, suppliers, partners, and financial performance. Data management systems for benchmarking, TQM, and Six Sigma quality control are nice-to-haves but not essential.


               657. B
Tracking key performance indicators, gathering information from operating personnel, quickly identifying and diagnosing problems, and taking corrective actions are all integral pieces of the process of managing strategy execution and overseeing operations. FedEx has created e-business tools for customers that allow them to track packages online, create address books, review shipping history, generate custom reports, simplify customer billing, reduce internal warehousing and inventory management costs, purchase goods and services from suppliers, and respond to quickly changing customer demands. Siemens Healthcare, one of the largest suppliers to the health care industry, uses a cloud-based business activity monitoring (BAM) system to continuously monitor and improve the company’s processes across more than 190 countries. Walmart has implemented blockchain technology to provide more accurate and timely payments to third-party freight carriers, which are essential to keeping its stores stocked with inventory.


               658. A
Monetary rewards and nonmonetary incentives generally head the list of motivating tools for gaining wholehearted employee commitment to good strategy execution and focusing attention on strategic priorities.


               659. A
Focusing jobholders’ attention and energy on what to achieve to be rewarded, as opposed to what to do, makes the work environment results-oriented. It is flawed management to tie incentives and rewards to satisfactory performance of duties and activities instead of desired business outcomes and company achievements.


               660. E
The more a manager understands what motivates subordinates and is able to use appropriate motivational incentives, both monetary and nonmonetary, the greater will be employees’ commitment to good day-in, day-out strategy execution and achievement of performance targets.


               661. D
A properly designed reward structure is management’s most powerful tool for gaining employee commitment to superior strategy execution and excellent operating results.


               662. A
Among the guidelines for creating incentive compensation systems that link employee behavior to organizational objectives is to make the performance payoff a major, not minor, piece of the total compensation package.


               663. C
While most approaches to motivation, compensation, and people management accentuate the positive, companies also make it clear that lackadaisical or indifferent effort and subpar performance can result in negative consequences.


               664. B
Companies like Wegmans (Concepts & Connections 10.3) and Goldman Sachs Concepts & Connections 10.4) are noted in the chapter as making a concerted effort to recruit the best and brightest people they can find and then retain them with excellent compensation packages, opportunities for rapid advancement and professional growth, and interesting assignments. Having a pool of “A players” with strong skill sets and lots of brainpower is essential to their businesses. These tactics are not unusual among companies dedicated to staffing jobs with the best people they can find. The tactics may include: (1) putting forth considerable effort in screening and evaluating job applicants—selecting only those with suitable skill sets, energy, initiative, judgment, aptitudes for learning, and adaptability to the company’s culture; (2) investing in training programs that continue throughout employees’ careers; (3) providing promising employees with challenging, interesting, and skill-stretching assignments; (4) rotating people through jobs that span functional and geographic boundaries; (5) striving to retain talented, high-performing employees via promotions, salary increases, performance bonuses, stock options and equity ownership, fringe benefit packages, and other perks; and (6) coaching average performers to improve their skills and capabilities, while weeding out underperformers and benchwarmers.


               665. E
Some of the most important nonmonetary approaches companies can use to enhance employee motivation include the following: providing attractive perks and fringe benefits; giving awards and public recognition to high performers and showcasing company successes; relying on promotion from within whenever possible; creating a work atmosphere in which there is genuine caring and mutual respect among workers and between management and employees; inviting and acting on ideas and suggestions from employees; stating the strategic vision in inspirational terms that make employees feel they are a part of something worthwhile in a larger social sense; sharing information with employees about financial performance, strategy, operational measures, market conditions, and competitors’ actions; and providing a comfortable and attractive working environment.


               666. B
Corporate culture is a company’s internal work climate or “organizational DNA,” and it is shaped by its core values, beliefs, chemistry, ingrained behaviors, “how we do things around here,” and business principles.


               667. D
Every company has its own unique corporate culture—the shared values, ingrained attitudes, and company traditions that determine norms of behavior, accepted work practices, and styles of operating. A company’s culture is important because it influences the organization’s actions and approaches to conducting business. As such, it plays an important role in strategy execution and may have an appreciable effect on business performance as well.


               668. E
Every company has its own unique corporate culture—the shared values, ingrained attitudes, and company traditions that determine norms of behavior, accepted work practices, and styles of operating. The character of a company’s culture is a product of the core values and beliefs that executives espouse, the standards of what is ethically acceptable and what is not, the “chemistry” and the “personality” that permeate the work environment, the company’s traditions, and the stories that get told over and over to illustrate and reinforce the company’s shared values, business practices, and traditions. In a very real sense, the culture is the company’s automatic, self-replicating “operating system” that defines “how we do things around here.”


               669. D
Corporate culture is a company’s internal work climate or “organizational DNA,” and it is shaped by its core values, beliefs, chemistry, ingrained behaviors, “how we do things around here,” and business principles. Mission, strategy, and business model are not part and parcel of a corporate culture.


               670. B
Some companies have so-called “high-performance” cultures in which the standout cultural traits are a “can-do” spirit, pride in doing things right, no-excuses accountability, and a pervasive results-oriented work climate in which people go the extra mile to meet or beat stretch objectives.


               671. B
There is no evidence to suggest that high-performance cultures have a low regard for ethical standards or appetite for high-risk strategies or are slow to respond to market dynamics.


               672. C
Adaptive corporate cultures: (1) are very supportive of managers and employees at all ranks who propose or help initiate useful change; (2) encourage and reward internal entrepreneurship on the part of individuals and groups; (3) seek out, support, and promote individuals who exercise initiative, spot opportunities for improvement, and display the skills to take advantage of them; and (4) are characterized by a willingness to accept change, a proactive approach to identifying issues, an ongoing evaluation of the implications and options, and rapid movement toward workable solutions.


               673. B
Adaptive corporate cultures: (1) are very supportive of managers and employees at all ranks who propose or help initiate useful change; (2) encourage and reward internal entrepreneurship on the part of individuals and groups; (3) seek out, support, and promote individuals who exercise initiative, spot opportunities for improvement, and display the skills to take advantage of them; and (4) are characterized by a willingness to accept change, a proactive approach to identifying issues, an ongoing evaluation of the implications and options, and rapid movement toward workable solutions.


               674. D
Unhealthy corporate cultures tend to be: (1) highly politicized and prone to infighting and turf wars; (2) change-resistant, risk-averse, and prone to an avoidance of continuous improvement; (3) insular, arrogant, and plagued by a “not invented here” syndrome; (4) unethical and greed-driven, plagued by an “ends justify the means” mentality; and (5) characterized by incompatible subcultures by department, location, or subunit that tend to clash with one another or are out of tune with the overall culture. Aversion to incentives, failure to recruit, subpar support, etc., are not necessarily characteristic of unhealthy cultures.


               675. C
Most companies employ a variety of techniques in embedding values and ethical standards, drawing on some or all of the following: screening applicants and hiring those who will mesh well with the culture; incorporating discussions of the company’s culture and behavioral norms into orientation programs for new employees and training courses for managers and employees; having senior executives frequently reiterate the importance and role of company values and ethical principles at company events and in internal communications to employees; expecting managers at all levels to be cultural role models and exhibit the advocated cultural norms in their own behavior; making the display of cultural norms a factor in evaluating each person’s job performance, granting compensation increases, and deciding who to promote; stressing that line managers all the way down to first-level supervisors give ongoing attention to explaining the desired cultural traits and behaviors in their areas and clarifying why they are important; encouraging company personnel to exert strong peer pressure on coworkers to conform to expected cultural norms; and holding periodic ceremonies to honor people who excel in displaying the company values and ethical principles. Teamwork and cooperative attitudes are ingrained in healthy cultures, whereas “ends justify the means” and “not invented here” approaches, winking at or casting a blind eye to unethical behavior, maintaining cut-throat competition with other sports fan sites, and clashing subcultures are all symptomatic of unhealthy cultures.


               676. C
Unhealthy corporate cultures tend to be: (1) highly politicized and prone to infighting and turf wars; (2) change-resistant, risk-averse, and prone to an avoidance of continuous improvement; (3) insular, arrogant, and plagued by a “not invented here” syndrome; (4) unethical and greed-driven, plagued by an “ends justify the means” mentality; and (5) characterized by incompatible subcultures by department, location, or subunit that tend to clash with one another or are out of tune with the overall culture.


               677. C
A politicized internal environment is unhealthy because political infighting consumes a great deal of organizational energy and often results in the company’s strategic agenda taking a backseat to political maneuvering.


               678. B
Change-resistant cultures encourage a number of undesirable or unhealthy behaviors: avoiding risks, hesitation in pursuing emerging opportunities, and widespread aversion to continuous improvement in performing value-chain activities.


               679. A
The text states that the big risk of an arrogant, must-be-invented-here mind-set and insular cultural thinking is that the company can underestimate the competencies and accomplishments of rival companies and overestimate its own progress—with a resulting loss of competitive advantage over time.


               680. B
The single most visible factor that distinguishes successful culture-change efforts from failed attempts is competent leadership at the top. Great power is needed to force major cultural change and overcome the unremitting resistance of entrenched cultures, and that power is at the top.


               681. A
Changing a company culture that impedes proficient strategy execution is among the toughest management tasks. It is natural for company personnel to cling to familiar practices and to be wary, if not hostile, to new approaches toward how things are to be done.


               682. A
Once a problem culture and steps to remediate that culture have been identified, the place for management to begin a major remodeling of the corporate culture is by selling company personnel on the need for new-style behaviors and work practices. The strongest substantive culture-changing actions that management is truly committed to instilling a new culture include promoting individuals who have stepped forward to spearhead the shift to a different culture and who can serve as role models for the desired cultural behavior; appointing outsiders with the desired cultural attributes to high-profile positions—bringing in new-breed managers sends an unambiguous message that a new era is dawning; screening all candidates for new positions carefully, hiring only those who appear to fit in with the new culture; mandating that all company personnel attend culture-training programs to better understand the culture-related actions and behaviors that are expected; and designing compensation incentives that boost the pay of teams and individuals who display the desired cultural behaviors.


               683. A
Once a problem culture and steps to remediate that culture have been identified, the place for management to begin a major remodeling of the corporate culture is by selling company personnel on the need for new-style behaviors and work practices.


               684. B
See Figure 10.2, Steps in Changing a Problem Culture. It does not include avoiding cross-unit cooperation. Cross-unit cooperation is an aspect of a healthy organizational culture. The place for management to begin a major remodeling of the corporate culture is by identifying those facets of the current culture that are conducive to good strategy execution and those that are not. The next step involves specifying what actions, behaviors, and work practices should be prominent in the “new” culture. The third step is talk openly about the problems of the present culture and discuss how new behaviors will improve company performance. The final step involves selling company personnel on the need for new-style behaviors and work practices. Doing so involves following up quickly with forceful, high-profile actions that are both substantive and symbolic.


               685. E
See Concepts & Connections 10.4. Leading the effort to foster a results-oriented, high-performance culture generally entails such leadership actions and managerial practices as: (1) treating employees with dignity and respect; (2) celebrating successes; and (3) setting stretch objectives and clearly communicating an expectation that company personnel are to give their best in achieving performance targets. At Goldman Sachs, steps were taken in order to foster a more familial atmosphere at work. The company began with small steps, such as setting up sports leagues and encouraging regular team happy hours. More significantly, Goldman Sachs instituted more employee-friendly work schedules and policies, more accommodating of work-life balance. Goldman Sachs additionally revised its parental leave policies, provided greater flexibility in work schedules, and enacted protections for interns and junior bankers designed to limit their working hours. Goldman Sachs also overhauled its performance review and promotion systems as well as its recruiting practices and policies regarding diversity.


               686. B
Of the choices, the only substantive culture-changing actions involve replacing key executives who stonewall change and revising policies and procedures in ways that will support the new culture.


               687. D
Substantive culture-changing actions involve top management so that personnel can see “unmistakable support,” and among these actions are: (1) replacing key executives who stonewall change; (2) promoting individuals who have advocated the culture shift and who can serve as role models for the desired cultural behavior; (3) appointing outsiders with the desired cultural attributes to high-visibility positions; (4) screening all new recruits carefully and hiring only those who appear to fit in with the new culture; (5) mandating that all personnel attend culture-changing programs and events; (6) designing compensation incentives that boost the pay of individuals who display desired cultural behaviors, while hitting the nonbelievers in the pocketbook; and (7) revising policies and procedures in ways that will support the new culture.


               688. B
See Figure 10.2, “Steps in Changing a Problem Culture” and the following explanation from the textbook. The primary steps include:
                  6. Explain why and how certain behaviors and work practices in the current culture pose obstacles to good strategy execution.
                  7. Explain how new behaviors and work practices will be more advantageous and produce better results. Effective culture-change leaders are good at telling stories to describe the new values and desired behaviors and connect them to everyday practices.
                  8. Cite reasons why the current strategy has to be modified, if the need for cultural change is due to a change in strategy. This includes explaining why the new strategic initiatives will bolster the company’s competitiveness and performance and how a change in culture can help in executing the new strategy.


               689. E
For an enterprise to execute its strategy in truly proficient fashion, top executives must take the lead in the strategy implementation process and personally drive the pace of progress. Doing so requires more than symbolic actions such as holding periodic ceremonies to honor people who excel in displaying the company values and ethical principles. Substantive actions involve managers being out in the field, seeing for themselves how well operations are going, gathering information firsthand, and gauging the progress being made. Proficient strategy execution requires company managers to be diligent and adept in spotting problems, learning what obstacles lay in the path of good execution, and then clearing the way for progress. The two best things top-level executives can do to create a fully engaged organization are (1) delegate authority to middle and lower-level managers to get the strategy execution process moving and (2) empower rank-and-file employees to act on their own initiative.


               690. A
Leading the drive for good strategy execution and operating excellence calls for the following three actions on the part of the manager: (1) being current with events while closely monitoring progress, (2) putting constructive pressure on the organization for operating excellence, and (3) initiating corrective action when necessary to improve performance and achieve desired results.


               691. C
For an enterprise to execute its strategy in truly proficient fashion, top executives must take the lead in the strategy implementation process and personally drive the pace of progress. They have to be out in the field, seeing for themselves how well operations are going, gathering information firsthand, and gauging the progress being made. Proficient strategy execution requires company managers to be diligent and adept in spotting problems, learning what obstacles lay in the path of good execution, and then clearing the way for progress. The two best things top-level executives can do to create a fully engaged organization are (1) delegate authority to middle- and lower-level managers to get the strategy execution process moving and (2) empower rank-and-file employees to act on their own initiative.


               692. A
In general, leading the drive for good strategy execution and operating excellence calls for these three actions on the part of the managers in charge: (1) staying on top of what is happening and closely monitoring progress; (2) putting constructive pressure on the organization to execute the strategy well and achieve operating excellence; and (3) initiating corrective actions to improve strategy execution and achieve the targeted performance results.


               693. C
Regularly visiting the field and talking with many different people at many different levels is a managerial practice often labeled managing by walking around or MBWA.


               694. B
One of the best ways for executives to stay on top of strategy execution and gather information about how the process is proceeding is by regularly visiting the field and talking with many different people at many different levels—a technique often labeled managing by walking around, or MBWA.


               695. E
Putting constructive pressure on the organization to achieve good results and operating excellence entails such managerial practices as: (1) treating employees with dignity and respect; (2) encouraging employees to use initiative and creativity in performing their work; (3) setting stretch objectives and clearly communicating an expectation that company personnel are to give their best in achieving performance targets; (4) focusing attention on continuous improvement; (5) using the full range of motivational techniques and compensation incentives to reward high performance; and (6) celebrating individual, group, and company successes. Top management should miss no opportunity to express respect for individual employees and show appreciation of extraordinary individual and group effort.


               696. E
Sometimes it must be recognized that an unsatisfactory performance may be due as much or more to a flawed strategy as to a weak strategy execution. That’s where initiating corrective actions comes in to play. Success in making corrective actions hinges on (1) a thorough analysis of the situation, (2) the exercise of good business judgment in deciding what actions to take, and (3) good implementation of the corrective actions that are initiated. Successful managers are skilled in getting an organization back on track rather quickly. They (and their staffs) are good at discerning what actions to take and in bringing them to a successful conclusion. Managers who struggle to show measurable progress in implementing corrective actions in a timely fashion are candidates for being replaced.


               697. A
Leading the effort to foster a results-oriented, high-performance culture generally entails such leadership actions and managerial practices as treating employees with dignity and respect.


               698. A
The process of making corrective adjustments in strategy execution varies according to the situation. In a crisis, taking remedial action quickly is of the essence. But it still takes time to review the situation, examine the available data, identify and evaluate options (crunching whatever numbers may be appropriate to determine which options are likely to generate the best outcomes), and decide what to do. When the situation allows managers to proceed more deliberately in deciding when to make changes and what changes to make, most managers seem to prefer a process of incrementally solidifying commitment to a particular course of action.


               699. Short Answer
A strategy consists of the actions and moves in the marketplace that managers are taking to gain a competitive edge over rivals. A company’s business model is management’s blueprint for delivering a valuable product or service to customers in a manner that will yield an attractive profit. A company is said to achieve a sustainable competitive advantage when an attractively large number of buyers develop a durable preference for its products or services over the offerings of competitors, despite the efforts of competitors to overcome or erode that advantage.


               700. Short Answer
Mimicking the strategies of successful industry rivals—with either copycat product offerings or maneuvers to stake out the same market position—rarely works. Rather, every company’s strategy needs to have some distinctive element that draws in customers and produces a competitive edge. Strategy, at its essence, is about competing differently—doing what rival firms do not do or what rival firms cannot do.


               701. Short Answer
While the company’s strategy sets forth an approach to offering superior value, a company’s business model is management’s blueprint for delivering a valuable product or service to customers in a manner that will yield an attractive profit, incorporating its customer value proposition and its profit formula.


               702. Short Answer
The nitty-gritty issue surrounding a company’s business model is whether it can execute its customer value proposition profitably. Just because company managers have crafted a strategy for competing and running the business does not automatically mean the strategy will lead to profitability. It may or it may not.


               703. Short Answer
The heart and soul of any strategy consists of the approaches to the marketplace that managers are taking to gain a sustainable competitive edge over rivals. Five of the most frequently used and dependable strategic approaches to setting a company apart from rivals and winning a sustainable competitive advantage are: (1) a low-cost provider strategy, (2) a broad differentiation strategy, (3) a focused low-cost strategy, (4) a focused differentiation strategy, and (5) a best-cost provider strategy.


               704. Short Answer
Yes, because a sustainable competitive advantage can allow a company to attract sufficiently large numbers of buyers who have a lasting preference for its products or services over those offered by rivals, despite the efforts of competitors to offset that appeal and overcome that company’s advantage. As to whether or not a sustainable competitive advantage makes a difference, the larger and more durable the competitive advantage, the better a company’s prospects for winning in the marketplace and earning superior long-term profits relative to rivals.


               705. Short Answer
The well-established manufacturer and marketer of hard seltzer aims to achieve a cost-based advantage over rivals and deter new entrants. Similar to Walmart and Southwest Airlines, which have earned strong market positions because of their respective low-cost advantages, they have achieved over their rivals, the incumbent brewer is pursuing a broad low-cost strategy. Low-cost provider strategies can produce a durable competitive edge when rivals find it hard to match the low-cost leader’s approach to driving costs out of the business. Therefore, newer entrants have no choice but to compete on the basis of focused differentiation in order to gain a foothold in the market.


               706. Short Answer
Clever rivals can nearly always copy the attributes of a popular product or service, but it is substantially more difficult for rivals to match the know-how and specialized capabilities a company has developed and perfected over a long period.


               707. Short Answer
A company’s strategy tends to evolve over time due to (1) changing circumstances and (2) ongoing management efforts to improve the company’s strategy.


               708. Short Answer
A company’s realized strategy is a combination of both deliberate or proactively planned elements and unplanned or adaptive emergent elements. This is because changing circumstances and ongoing management efforts to improve the strategy cause a company’s strategy to evolve over time—a condition that makes the task of crafting a strategy a work in progress, not a one-time event.


               709. Short Answer
Focused differentiation. Basic strategic approaches for setting a company apart from rivals and winning a sustainable competitive advantage include a low-cost provider strategy, a broad differentiation strategy, a best-cost provider strategy, and a focused differentiation strategy. Lululemon previously adopted, and via its acquisition of Mirror, is now building out its focused differentiation strategy via multiple channels, still concentrating on a narrow customer segment and outcompeting rivals by offering customers attributes that meet their specialized needs and is more appealing than rivals’ offerings—at a price premium over its rivals in activewear.


               710. Short Answer
A company’s business model incorporates its customer value proposition and its profit formula. The customer value proposition lays out the company’s approach to satisfying buyer wants and needs at a price customers will consider a good value; that is, the greater the value provided and the lower the price, the more attractive the value proposition is to customers. The profit formula describes the company’s approach to determining a cost structure that will allow for acceptable profits given the pricing tied to its customer value proposition; that is, the lower the costs given the customer value proposition, the greater the ability of the business model to be a moneymaker.


               711. Short Answer
A winning strategy must (1) fit the company’s external and internal situation, (2) build sustainable competitive advantage, and (3) improve company performance.


               712. Short Answer
The three questions to distinguish a winning strategy from a so-so or flawed strategy are: (1) How well does the strategy fit the company’s situation? (2) Is the strategy helping the company to achieve a sustainable competitive advantage? (3) Is the strategy producing good company performance? Regarding its fit with a company’s internal and external situation, a strategy has to be well matched and must fit competitive conditions in the industry and other aspects of the enterprise’s external environment. At the same time, it should be tailored to the company’s collection of competitively important resources and capabilities. Regarding strategy and the achievement of sustainable competitive advantage, strategies that fail to achieve a durable competitive advantage over rivals are unlikely to produce superior performance for more than a brief period of time; the bigger and more durable the competitive edge that the strategy helps build, the more powerful it is. Regarding strategy and performance, the mark of a winning strategy is a strong company performance; the caliber of a company’s strategy can be measured by (1) gains in profitability and financial strength and (2) advances in the company’s competitive strength and market standing.


               713. Short Answer
A strategy should be tailored to the company’s collection of competitively important resources and capabilities. It’s unwise to build a strategy upon the company’s weaknesses or pursue a strategic approach that requires resources that are deficient in the company. Examples include: (1) FedEx’s superior capabilities in next-day delivery of small packages and (2) Hyundai’s advanced manufacturing processes and unparalleled quality control system. The capabilities of both of these companies have proven difficult for competitors to imitate or best and have allowed each to build and sustain competitive advantage.


               714. Short Answer
The better conceived a company’s strategy and the more competently it is executed, the more likely that the company will be a standout performer in the marketplace. In stark contrast, a company that lacks clear-cut direction, has a flawed strategy, or can’t execute its strategy competently is a company whose financial performance is probably suffering, whose business is at long-term risk, and whose management is sorely lacking. That is, how well a company performs is directly attributable to the caliber of its strategy and the proficiency with which the strategy is executed.


               715. Short Answer
Among all the things managers do, nothing affects a company’s ultimate success or failure more fundamentally than how well its management team charts the company’s direction, develops competitively effective strategic moves and business approaches, and pursues what needs to be done internally to produce good day-in, day-out strategy execution and operating excellence. Indeed, good strategy and good strategy execution are the most telling signs of good management.


               716. Short Answer
SandCloud has adopted a proactive strategy and used its existing market position to create a new market opportunity. This planned initiative improved the company’s financial performance and secured a competitive edge.


               717. Short Answer
Selling high-quality Keurig machines at a very low price is the company’s customer value proposition, and then selling low-cost refills at a relatively higher price is the company’s profit formula. The two elements of a company’s business model are (1) its customer value proposition and (2) its profit formula. The customer value proposition lays out the company’s approach to satisfying buyer wants and needs at a price that customers will consider a good value. The profit formula describes the company’s approach to determining a cost structure that will allow for acceptable profits, given the pricing tied to its customer value proposition.


               718. Short Answer
Thin-crust pizzas allow the pizza maker to cut down on dough costs. That is its profit formula, and free soft drinks with a larger pack is both a profit formula and a value proposition for customers. The two elements of a company’s business model are (1) its customer value proposition and (2) its profit formula. The customer value proposition lays out the company’s approach to satisfying buyer wants and needs at a price that its customers will consider a good value. The profit formula describes the company’s approach to determining a cost structure that will allow for acceptable profits, given the pricing tied to its customer value proposition.


               719. Short Answer
Good strategy and good strategy execution, especially during a global pandemic, are the most telling signs of good management. The rationale for using the twin standards of good strategy making and good strategy execution to determine whether a company is well managed is therefore compelling: The better conceived a company’s strategy and the more competently it is executed, the more likely the company will be a standout performer in the marketplace.


               720. Short Answer
The five stages are provided in the feedback.
The managerial process of crafting and executing a company’s strategy is an ongoing, continuous process consisting of five integrated stages: (1) developing a strategic vision, (2) setting objectives, (3) crafting strategy, (4) implementing and executing the chosen strategy, and (5) evaluating and analyzing the external environment and the company’s internal situation and performance.


               721. Short Answer
Students should be able to outline these particular aspects of the first three stages of the five-stage strategy formulation and execution process as depicted in Figure 2.1: (1) developing a strategic vision, (2) setting objectives, and (3) crafting a strategy.
Strategic inflection point: the point at which the industry has changed to such a degree that the company’s vision is obsolete. Examples will vary.
Strategic vision: top management’s views about the company’s direction and future product-customer-market-technology focus. Examples will vary.
Strategic objective: an organization’s performance targets. Examples will vary.
Strategic plan: maps out where a company is headed, establishes strategic and financial targets, and outlines the competitive moves and approaches to be used in achieving the desired business results. Examples will vary.
Balanced scorecard: system used to see that financial objectives and strategic objectives are balanced. Examples will vary.


               722. Short Answer
True. Developing a strategic vision is necessarily future-oriented in that it charts a company’s long-term direction.


               723. Short Answer
A clearly articulated strategic vision communicates management’s aspirations to stakeholders about “where we are going” and helps steer the energies of company personnel in a common direction. The defining characteristic of a well-conceived strategic vision is what it says about the company’s future strategic course: “where we are headed and what our future product-customer-market-technology focus will be.”


               724. Short Answer
The defining characteristic of a well-conceived strategic vision is what it says about the company’s future strategic course: “where we are headed and what our future product-customer-market-technology focus will be.” The mission statements of most companies say much more about the enterprise’s present business scope and purpose: “why we exist.”


               725. Short Answer
The balanced scorecard is a widely used method for combining the use of both strategic and financial objectives, tracking their achievement, and giving management a more complete and balanced view of how well an organization is performing. Merely tracking a company’s financial performance overlooks the fact that what ultimately enables a company to deliver better financial results is the achievement of strategic objectives that improve its competitiveness and market strength.


               726. Short Answer
The balanced scorecard is a widely used method for combining the use of both strategic and financial objectives, tracking their achievement, and giving management a more complete and balanced view of how well an organization is performing. The two types of objectives included in the balanced scorecard are strategic (e.g., market share, customer retention, customer satisfaction, customer acquisition, new product introduction, reduction of product development cycles, etc.) and financial (e.g., annual percent increases in sales and earnings per share, returns on capital employed, increases in internal cash flows for investment, and improved credit ratings).


               727. Short Answer
In contrast to strategic objectives, which are leading indicators of a company’s market standing and competitive vitality, a company’s financial objectives are really lagging indicators that reflect the results of past decisions and organizational activities. The results of past decisions and organizational activities are often unreliable indicators of a company’s future prospects. Companies that have been poor financial performers are sometimes able to turn things around, and good financial performers on occasion fall upon hard times. Hence, the best and most reliable predictors of a company’s success in the marketplace and future financial performance are strategic objectives.


               728. Short Answer
Crafting a strategy is a collaborative team effort that includes managers in various positions and at various organizational levels, involving corporate strategies (in multibusiness firms), business strategies (by division or in single-business firms), functional strategies, and operating strategies.


               729. Short Answer
The three levels of strategy are provided in Feedback.
A single-business company has three levels of strategy: business strategy, functional-area strategies, and operating strategies.


               730. Short Answer
Management’s action agenda for executing the chosen strategy emerges from assessing what the company will have to do to achieve the targeted financial and strategic performance. In most situations, managing the strategy execution process includes the following principal aspects:
   * Creating a strategy-supporting structure
   * Staffing the organization to obtain needed skills and expertise
   * Developing and strengthening strategy-supporting resources and capabilities
   * Allocating ample resources to the activities critical to strategic success
   * Ensuring that policies and procedures facilitate effective strategy execution
   * Organizing the work effort along the lines of best practice
   * Installing information and operating systems that enable company personnel to perform essential activities
   * Motivating people and tying rewards directly to the achievement of performance objectives
   * Creating a company culture conducive to successful strategy execution
   * Exerting the internal leadership needed to propel implementation forward


               731. Short Answer
Each company manager has to think through the answer to the question “What needs to be done in my area to execute my piece of the strategic plan, and what actions should I take to get the process under way?” How much internal change is needed depends on how much of the strategy is new, how far internal practices and competencies deviate from what the strategy requires, and how well the present work culture supports good strategy execution. In most situations, managing the strategy execution process includes the following principal aspects:

   * Creating a strategy-supporting structure
   * Staffing the organization to obtain needed skills and expertise
   * Developing and strengthening strategy-supporting resources and capabilities
   * Allocating ample resources to the activities critical to strategic success
   * Ensuring that policies and procedures facilitate effective strategy execution
   * Organizing the work effort along the lines of best practice
   * Installing information and operating systems that enable company personnel to perform essential activities
   * Motivating people and tying rewards directly to the achievement of performance objectives
   * Creating a company culture conducive to successful strategy execution
   * Exerting the internal leadership needed to propel implementation forward


               732. Short Answer
True. In choosing among opportunities and addressing the hows of strategy, strategists must embrace the risks of uncertainty and the discomfort that naturally accompanies such risks. Fast changing business environments demand astute entrepreneurship searching for opportunities to do new things or to do existing things in new or better ways. Bold strategies involve making difficult choices and placing bets on the future. The faster a company’s business environment is changing, the more critical it becomes for its managers to be good entrepreneurs in diagnosing the direction and force of the changes underway and in responding with timely adjustments in strategy. Strategy makers have to pay attention to early warnings of future change and be willing to experiment with dare-to-be-different ways to establish a market position in that future. When obstacles appear unexpectedly in a company’s path, it is up to management to adapt rapidly and innovatively. Masterful strategies come from doing things differently from rivals where it counts, such as being more imaginative, adapting faster rather than running with the herd, and out-innovating them. Good strategy-making is therefore inseparable from good business entrepreneurship. One cannot exist without the other.


               733. Short Answer
True. In choosing among opportunities and addressing the hows of strategy, strategists must embrace the risks of uncertainty and the discomfort that naturally accompanies such risks. Fast changing business environments demand astute entrepreneurship searching for opportunities to do new things or to do existing things in new or better ways. Bold strategies involve making difficult choices and placing bets on the future. The faster a company’s business environment is changing, the more critical it becomes for its managers to be good entrepreneurs in diagnosing the direction and force of the changes underway and in responding with timely adjustments in strategy. Strategy makers have to pay attention to early warnings of future change and be willing to experiment with dare-to-be-different ways to establish a market position in that future. When obstacles appear unexpectedly in a company’s path, it is up to management to adapt rapidly and innovatively. Masterful strategies come from doing things differently from rivals where it counts, such as being more imaginative, adapting faster rather than running with the herd, and out-innovating them. Good strategy-making is therefore inseparable from good business entrepreneurship. One cannot exist without the other.


               734. Short Answer
In diversified, multibusiness companies such as LVMH, the strategy-making task involves four distinct types or levels of strategy: corporate strategy for the company as a whole, business strategy (one for each business the company has diversified into), functional-area strategies within each business, and operating strategies. A single-business enterprise like GemX has three levels of strategy: business strategy for the company as a whole, functional-area strategies (e.g., marketing, IT, logistics), and operating strategies (for key operating units, such as order processing and fulfillment or member services).


               735. Short Answer
Business strategy is concerned with strengthening the market position, building competitive advantage, and improving the performance of a single line of business unit. Business strategy is primarily the responsibility of business unit heads, although corporate-level executives may well exert strong influence.
Corporate strategy concerns how to improve the combined performance of the set of businesses the company has diversified into by capturing cross-business synergies and turning them into competitive advantage. It addresses the questions of what businesses to hold or divest, which new markets to enter, and how to best enter new markets (by acquisition, creation of a strategic alliance, or through internal development, for example). It is orchestrated by the CEO and other senior executives and establishes an overall strategy for managing a set of businesses in a diversified, multibusiness company.


               736. Short Answer
Questions include: (1) Do macro-environmental factors and industry characteristics offer sellers opportunities for growth and attractive profits? (2) What kinds of competitive forces are industry members facing, and how strong is each force? (3) What forces are driving industry change, and what impact will these changes have on competitive intensity and industry profitability? (4) What market positions do industry rivals occupy—who is strongly positioned and who is not? (5) What strategic moves are rivals likely to make next? (6) What are the key factors of competitive success? (7) Does the industry outlook offer good prospects for profitability?


               737. Short Answer
Driving-forces analysis consists of three steps: (1) identifying what the driving forces are; (2) assessing whether the drivers of change are, individually or collectively, acting to make the industry more or less attractive; and (3) determining what strategy changes are needed to prepare for the impact of the driving forces. PESTEL analysis encompasses the six principal components of the broader macro-environment (political factors, economic conditions in the firm’s general environment, sociocultural forces, technological factors, environmental forces, and legal/regulatory factors). A strategic group map involves identifying the key competitive characteristics that differentiate firms’ market positions, plotting firms on a two-variable map based on their competitive approaches, assigning firms occupying the same map location to a common strategic group, and drawing circles around each strategic group, making the circles proportional to the group’s share of total industry sales. Key success factors are the competitive characteristics that differentiate firms’ market positions.


               738. Short Answer
As shown in Figure 3.1, a pizza restaurant’s broad macro-environment encompasses all of the relevant factors—political factors, economic conditions in the firm’s general environment, sociocultural forces, technological factors, environmental forces, and legal/regulatory factors—whereas its industry and competitive environment represent the “inner ring” or narrower part of that operating environment.


               739. Short Answer
See Figure 3.2. These interactions stem from competitive pressures with respect to supplier bargaining power, buyer bargaining power, the threat of new entrants, and the threat of substitutes. These, in turn, influence competitive pressures among rival sellers, which is typically the strongest of the five forces.


               740. Short Answer
The expected reaction of industry incumbents in defending against new entry is an important factor affecting the threat of entry. Retaliation threats are derived from the ability and willingness of industry incumbents to launch strong defensive maneuvers to maintain their positions and make it harder for a newcomer to compete successfully and profitably. Entry candidates may have second thoughts about attempting entry if they conclude that existing firms will mount well-funded campaigns to hamper (or even defeat) a newcomer’s attempt to gain a market foothold big enough to compete successfully. Such campaigns can include any of the competitive weapons listed in Table 3.2, such as ramping up advertising expenditures, offering special price discounts to the very customers a newcomer is seeking to attract, or adding attractive new-product features (to match or beat the newcomer’s product offering). Such actions can raise a newcomer’s cost of entry along with the risk of failing, making the prospect of entry less appealing. The result is that even the expectation on the part of new entrants that industry incumbents will contest a newcomer’s entry may be enough to dissuade entry candidates from going forward.
However, there are occasions when industry incumbents have nothing in their competitive arsenal that is formidable enough to either discourage entry or put obstacles in a newcomer’s path that will defeat its strategic efforts to become a viable competitor. In the restaurant industry, for example, existing restaurants in a given geographic market have few actions they can take to discourage a new restaurant from opening or to block it from attracting enough patrons to be profitable.


               741. Short Answer
See Figure 3.3. Among these factors are: (1) low cost of buyers’ switching to competing brands or substitutes; (2) large number of buyers, and a single customer or customer group is particularly important to a seller; (3) low level of buyer demand; (4) buyers are well informed about competing products and prices; and (5) buyers pose a credible threat to integrating backward into the business of sellers.


               742. Short Answer
See Figure 3.3. Among these factors are: (1) high cost of buyers’ switching to competing brands or substitutes; (2) small number of buyers, and a customer is not particularly important to a seller; (3) high level of buyer demand; (4) low degree to which buyers are well informed about competing products and prices; and (5) buyers do not pose a credible threat to integrating backward into the business of sellers.


               743. Short Answer
See Figure 3.3. Among these factors are: (1) cost of buyers’ switching to competing brands or substitutes, (2) number of buyers or if a customer is particularly important to a seller, (3) level of buyer demand, (4) degree to which buyers are well informed about competing products and prices, and (5) degree to which buyers pose a credible threat to integrating backward into the business of sellers.


               744. Short Answer
See Figure 3.4. Among these factors are: (1) good substitutes are available and are attractively priced, (2) substitutes have comparable or superior performance features, (3) end-users have high or low switching costs, and (4) end-users adapt to using substitutes.


               745. Short Answer
See Figure 3.5. Among these factors are: (1) item being supplied is facing shortages, (2) high seller switching costs to other suppliers, (3) zero to low threat of backward integration by sellers, and (4) few substitute inputs exist or are expected to emerge, and those inputs are highly differentiated.


               746. Short Answer
See Figure 3.5. Among these factors are: (1) item being supplied is a commodity, (2) low seller switching costs to other suppliers, (3) moderate to high threat of backward integration by sellers, (4) good or new substitute inputs exist or are emerging, (5) surges in the availability of supply, and (6) industry incumbents represent a large fraction of supplier sales and continued high-volume purchases are critical to the survivability of suppliers.


               747. Short Answer
See Figure 3.6. Among these factors are: (1) the number of firms poised to enter is large, (2) low entry and exit barriers, (3) existing rivals are enjoying good profits, (4) industry outlook is stable or growing, (5) steady or high growth in buyer demand, (6) unlikely (or incapability of) retaliation from industry incumbents to a new entrant, and (7) incumbents are expanding into geographic or market segments where they do not currently have a presence.


               748. Short Answer
See Figure 3.6. Among these factors are: (1) the number of firms poised to enter is small, (2) high entry and exit barriers, (3) existing rivals are struggling to earn good profits, (4) industry outlook is risky or uncertain, (5) slow growth in buyer demand, and (6) likely retaliation of industry incumbents to a new entrant.


               749. Short Answer
See Figure 3.6. The most significant barriers include knowledge, technological capability, access to markets, and the level of capital requirements for new entrants related to manufacturing facilities and equipment, the costs of introductory advertising and sales promotion campaigns, the need for working capital to finance inventories and customer credit, and sufficient cash to cover startup costs.


               750. Short Answer
Rivalry determinants (shown in Figure 3.7) associated with competitive intensity include: (1) jockeying for position, (2) industries concentration or fragmentation, (3) size and scale of incumbents, (4) level of consumer demand, (5) industry growth rate, (6) buyer switching costs, and (7) degree of standardization or differentiation among rivals, products and services.


               751. Short Answer
Rivalry determinants (shown in Figure 3.7) associated with weaker competitive pressures include: (1) industries comprised of vast numbers of small rivals, (2) industries composed of fewer than five rivals, (3) slow-growing markets, (4) when incumbents are not aggressive in drawing sales and market share away from other incumbents, (5) when products are significantly differentiated and customer loyalty is high, (6) when buyer switching costs are high, and (7) when buyer demand is high.


               752. Short Answer
Rivalry determinants (shown in Figure 3.7) associated with intensified competitive pressures include: (1) competing sellers regularly launch fresh actions to boost their market standing and business performance, (2) competitors are equal in size and capability, (3) markets are slow-growing, (4) when buyer demand abates and sellers find themselves with excess capacity and/or inventory, (5) as it becomes less costly for buyers to switch brands, (6) when industry conditions tempt competitors to use price cuts or other competitive weapons to boost unit volume, (7) when one or more competitors become dissatisfied with their market position, and (8) when strong companies outside the industry acquire weak firms in the industry and launch aggressive, well-funded moves to build market share.


               753. Short Answer
Most drivers of industry and competitive change fall into one of the categories in Table 3.2.


               754. Short Answer
Driving-forces analysis consists of not one but three steps: (1) identifying what the driving forces are; (2) assessing whether the drivers of change are, individually or collectively, acting to make the industry more or less attractive; and (3) determining what strategy changes are needed to prepare for the impact of the driving forces.


               755. Short Answer
True. However, taking the right kinds of actions to prepare for the industry and competitive changes being wrought by the driving forces first requires accurate diagnosis of the forces driving industry change and the impacts these forces will have on both the industry environment and the company’s business. To the extent that managers are unclear about the drivers of industry change and their impacts, or if their views are off-base, the chances of making astute and timely strategy adjustments are slim. So, driving-forces analysis is not something to be undertaken lightly; it has practical value and is basic to the task of thinking strategically about where the industry is headed and how to prepare for the changes ahead.


               756. Short Answer
Regardless of the circumstances, an industry’s key success factors can always be deduced by asking the same three questions.
                  9. On what basis do buyers of the industry’s product choose between the competing brands of sellers? That is, what product attributes and service characteristics are crucial?
                  10. Given the nature of competitive rivalry prevailing in the marketplace, what resources and competitive capabilities must a company have to be competitively successful?
                  11. What shortcomings are almost certain to put a company at a significant competitive disadvantage?


               757. Short Answer
A strategic group consists of those industry members with similar competitive approaches and positions in the market. Companies in the same strategic group can resemble one another in a variety of ways. For example, they may have comparable product-line breadth, emphasize the same distribution channels, depend on identical technological approaches, or offer buyers essentially the same product attributes or similar services and technical assistance. Among the benefits of constructing a strategic group map are: (1) examining what strategic groups exist; (2) identifying the companies within each group; (3) determining if a competitive “white space” exists, i.e., where industry competitors are able to create and capture altogether new demand; (4) tabulating the number of strategic groups in an industry; and (5) determining their respective market positions.


               758. Short Answer
Answer: Gathering competitive intelligence about the strategic direction and likely moves of key competitors allows a company to prepare defensive countermoves, to craft its own strategic moves with some confidence about what market maneuvers to expect from rivals in response, and to exploit any openings that arise from competitors’ missteps. Based on a framework from Michael Porter, in order to succeed in predicting a competitor’s next moves, company strategists need to assess:

   * Strategy: Analysts need to begin with a good understanding of each rival’s—in this instance, Sephora, Ulta Beauty, LVMH, E.L.F. Beauty, Estée Lauder, etc.—current strategy, as an indicator of its pattern of behavior and best strategic options.
   * Objectives: An appraisal of a rival’s objectives should include not only its financial performance objectives but strategic ones as well (such as those concerning market share). What is even more important is to consider the extent to which each rival is meeting these objectives and whether it is under pressure to improve.
   * Resources and Capabilities: A rival’s strategic moves and countermoves are both enabled and constrained by the set of resources and capabilities the rival has at hand. Thus, a rival’s resources and capabilities (and efforts to acquire new resources and capabilities) serve as a strong signal of future strategic actions (and reactions to your company’s moves).
   * Assumptions: How a rival’s top managers think about their strategic situation can have a big impact on how the rival behaves. Cosmetics companies that believe they are too big to fail, such as Sephora and Ulta Beauty, for example, may take on more risk than is financially prudent. Assessing a rival’s assumptions entails considering its assumptions about itself as well as about the industry it participates in.


The question is where to look for such information, since rivals rarely reveal their strategic intentions openly. Information regarding these four analytic components can often be gleaned from company press releases, information posted on the company’s website (especially the presentations management has recently made to securities analysts), and such public documents as annual reports and 10-K filings for those sporting apparel companies that are publicly traded).



               759. Short Answer
Michael E. Porter’s four indicators of a rival’s likely strategic moves include a rival’s current strategy, objectives, capabilities, and assumptions about itself and the industry. A strategic profile of a rival that provides good clues to its behavioral proclivities can be constructed by characterizing the rival along these four dimensions. Unless a company pays attention to the strategies and situations of competitors and has some inkling of what moves these rivals will be making, it ends up flying blind into competitive battle.


               760. Short Answer
Key success factors (KSFs) are the strategy elements, product attributes, competitive capabilities, or intangible assets with the greatest impact on future success in the marketplace. KSFs by their very nature are so important to future competitive success that all firms in the industry must pay close attention to them or risk an eventual exit from the industry.


               761. Short Answer
An industry’s key success factors (KSFs) are those competitive factors that most affect industry members’ ability to survive and prosper in the marketplace. These include: (1) the particular strategy elements, (2) product attributes, (3) operational approaches, and (4) resources and competitive capabilities that spell the difference between being a strong competitor and a weak competitor—and between profit and loss.


               762. Short Answer
The degree to which an industry is attractive or unattractive is not the same for all industry participants and potential new entrants. The attractiveness of an industry depends on the degree of fit between a company’s competitive capabilities and industry key success factors.


               763. Short Answer
Salient drivers of industry change in hospitality and lodging:
   * Emerging new Internet capabilities and applications—impact business travel as videoconferencing is a substitute for travel to attend meetings, and impact reservation and guest loyalty program tracking systems
   * Shifts in buyer demographics—impact segmentation in the industry by moving from price tiers (e.g., budget, mid-priced, deluxe priced) to service tiers (e.g., limited service, full-service, extended stay, “green” hotels,” boutiques, luxury brands)
   * Changes in cost and efficiency—impair or propel the industry to move from price tiers (e.g., budget, mid-priced, deluxe priced) to service tiers (e.g., limited service, full-service, extended stay, boutiques, luxury brands)
   * Increasing globalization—proliferation of global brands (Accor International, Best Western, Choice, Hilton, Marriott, IC Group, etc.), assuring travelers of the same experiences at disparate destinations worldwide
   * Regulatory influences and government policy changes—impact permits and tax incentives (or disincentives) for construction and/or retrofit of new properties; reimbursement rates for business, government and armed forces personnel, and so on
Caveat: getting a handle on the collective impact of the driving forces in hospitality and lodging requires looking at the likely effects of each factor separately, since the driving forces may not all be pushing change in the same direction. For example, one driving force may be acting to spur demand for the industry’s product while another is working to curtail demand. Whether the net effect on industry demand is up or down hinges on which change driver is deemed by an analyst to be the most powerful.


               764. Short Answer
Gathering competitive intelligence about the strategic direction and likely moves of key competitors allows a company to prepare defensive countermoves, to craft its own strategic moves with some confidence about what market maneuvers to expect from rivals in response, and to exploit any openings that arise from competitors’ missteps. Based on a framework from Michael Porter, in order to succeed in predicting a competitor’s next moves, company strategists need to assess:
   * Strategy: Analysts need to begin with a good understanding of each rival’s—in this instance, Nike, Under Armour, lululemon athletica, Adidas-Reebok, Fila, and so on—current strategy, as an indicator of its pattern of behavior and best strategic options.
   * Objectives: An appraisal of a rival’s objectives should include not only its financial performance objectives but strategic ones as well (such as those concerning market share). What is even more important is to consider the extent to which the rival is meeting these objectives and whether it is under pressure to improve.
   * Resources and Capabilities: A rival’s strategic moves and countermoves are both enabled and constrained by the set of resources and capabilities the rival has at hand. Thus, a rival’s resources and capabilities (and efforts to acquire new resources and capabilities) serve as a strong signal of future strategic actions (and reactions to your company’s moves).
   * Assumptions: How a rival’s top managers think about their strategic situation can have a big impact on how the rival behaves. Banks that believe they are “too big to fail,” for example, may take on more risk than is financially prudent. Assessing a rival’s assumptions entails considering its assumptions about itself as well as about the industry it participates in.
The question is where to look for such information since rivals rarely reveal their strategic intentions openly. Information regarding these four analytic components can often be gleaned from company press releases, information posted on the company’s website (especially the presentations management has recently made to securities analysts), and such public documents as annual reports and 10-K filings for those sporting apparel companies that are publicly traded).


               765. Short Answer
KSFs by their very nature are so important to competitive success that all firms in the industry must pay close attention to them or risk becoming an industry laggard or failure. To indicate the significance of KSFs another way, how well the elements of a company’s strategy measure up against an industry’s KSFs determines whether the company can meet the basic criteria for surviving and thriving in the industry. Identifying KSFs, in light of the prevailing and anticipated industry and competitive conditions, is therefore always a top priority in analytic and strategy-making considerations. Company strategists need to understand the industry landscape well enough to separate the factors most important to competitive success from those that are less important.
In the craft beer industry, for example, although there are many types of buyers (wholesale, retail, end consumer), it is most important to understand the preferences and buying behavior of the beer drinkers. Their purchase decisions are driven by price, taste, convenient access, and marketing. Thus, the KSFs include a strong network of wholesale distributors (to get the company’s brand stocked and favorably displayed in retail outlets, bars, restaurants, and stadiums, where beer is sold) and clever advertising (to induce beer drinkers to buy the company’s brand and thereby pull beer sales through the established wholesale and retail channels). Because there is a potential for strong buyer power on the part of large distributors and retail chains, competitive success depends on some mechanism to offset that power, of which advertising (to create demand pull) is one. Thus, the KSFs also include superior product differentiation (as in craft beers and microbrews) or superior firm size and branding capabilities (as in national brands). The KSFs also include full utilization of brewing capacity (to keep manufacturing costs low and offset the high costs of advertising, branding, and product differentiation).


               766. Short Answer
The final step in evaluating the industry and competitive environment is to use the results of each of the analyses performed to determine whether the industry presents the company with strong prospects for competitive success and attractive profits. The important factors on which to base a conclusion include:
   * How the company is being impacted by the state of the macro-environment.
   * Whether strong competitive forces are squeezing industry profitability to subpar levels.
   * Whether the presence of complementors and the possibility of cooperative actions improve the company’s prospects.
   * Whether industry profitability will be favorably or unfavorably affected by the prevailing driving forces.
   * Whether the company occupies a stronger market position than rivals.
   * Whether this is likely to change in the course of competitive interactions.
   * How well the company’s strategy delivers on the industry key success factors.


               767. Short Answer
The five questions comprising the task of evaluating a company’s competitive strength and cost structure are: (1) How well is the company’s strategy working? (2) What are the company’s competitively important resources and capabilities? (3) What are the company’s cost structure and customer value proposition competitive? (4) What is the company’s competitive strength relative to key rivals? and (5) What strategic issues and problems must be addressed by management?


               768. Short Answer
The eight indicators of how well a company’s strategy is working include: (1) whether the company is recording gains in financial strength and profitability and (2) whether the company’s competitive strength and market standing are improving. Other indicators include (3) trends in the company’s sales and earnings growth, (4) trends in the company’s stock price, (5) trends in customer retention rates, (6) rate of new customer acquisition, (7) changes in company image and reputation, and (8) evidence of improvement in internal processes such as defect rate, order fulfillment, delivery times, days of inventory, and employee productivity.


               769. Short Answer
The two best indicators of how well a company’s strategy is working are (1) whether the company is recording gains in financial strength and profitability, and (2) whether the company’s competitive strength and market standing are improving.


               770. Short Answer
True. A distinctive competence is a competitively important activity that a company performs better than its rivals—it thus represents a competitively superior internal strength. It can enable a company to deliver standout value to customers (in the form of lower prices, better product performance, or superior service).


               771. Short Answer
A core competence is a proficiently performed internal activity that is central to a company’s strategy and competitiveness. A core competence is a more competitively valuable strength than a competence because of the activity’s key role in the company’s strategy and the contribution it makes to the company’s market success and profitability. Often, core competencies can be leveraged to create new markets or new product demand, as the engine behind a company’s growth.


               772. Short Answer
The more difficult and more expensive it is to imitate a company’s resource or capability, the more likely that it can also provide a sustainable competitive advantage.


               773. Short Answer
All of these analytical techniques are means of accurately assessing the competitiveness of a company’s value chain, cost structure, and customer value proposition against the competitive environment in general and rivals in particular.


               774. Short Answer
Everlane’s core competence is probably in producing casual clothing, designed to last, in ethically managed factories, under a policy of what they call “radical transparency.” Everlane’s cost structure reveals the emphasis that this company places on activities that enhance differentiation and support higher prices, such as online marketing, sales, and service. Everlane’s cost structure also includes a profit margin component, since profits are necessary to compensate the company’s owners and investors, who bear risks and provide capital.


               775. Short Answer
True. Cross-functional capabilities draw on several different kinds of resources and are multidimensional in nature—they spring from the effective collaboration among people with different types of expertise working in different organizational units. A resource bundle is a linked and closely integrated set of competitive assets centered around one or more cross-functional capabilities. Resource bundles can sometimes pass the VRIN tests of a resource’s competitive power even when the individual components of the resource bundle cannot. They fulfill an important strategic objective as it imparts a potential for attractive and long-lived profitability.


               776. Short Answer
See Figure 4.1. A company’s value chain identifies the primary activities that can create customer value and related support activities. Primary activities include: supply chain management, operations, distribution, sales and marketing, and customer service activities. Support activities that facilitate and enhance the performance of the primary activities can include: Product R&D, Human Resource Management, and General Administration.


               777. Short Answer
Benchmarking is a potent tool for learning which companies are best at performing particular activities and then using their techniques (or “best practices”) to improve the cost and effectiveness of a company’s own internal activities.


               778. Short Answer
Benchmarking is a potent tool for learning which companies are best at performing particular activities and then using their techniques (or “best practices”) to improve the cost and effectiveness of a company’s own internal activities.


               779. Short Answer
See Figure 4.2 for an example. A company can improve its cost structure via strategies to reduce costs of suppliers and/or forward channel allies.


               780. Short Answer
Ways to reduce costs of internally performed activities and improve cost competitiveness include: (1) implementing best practices, (2) revamping the value chain, (3) relocating high-cost activities, (4) outsourcing, (5) investing in productivity improvements, (6) finding ways to detour around the activities or items, (7) product redesign, and (8) reducing costs at the supplier or distributor level.


               781. Short Answer
Supplier-related cost disadvantages can be attacked by pressuring suppliers for lower prices, switching to lower-priced substitute inputs, and collaborating closely with suppliers to identify mutual cost-saving opportunities. There are three main ways to combat a cost disadvantage in the forward portion of the industry value chain: (1) pressure dealer-distributors and other forward channel allies to reduce their costs and markups; (2) work closely with forward channel allies to identify win–win opportunities to reduce costs, and (3) change to a more economical distribution strategy, that is, integrate forward into company-owned retail outlets.


               782. Short Answer
Supplier-related cost disadvantages can be attacked by pressuring suppliers for lower prices, switching to lower-priced substitute inputs, and collaborating closely with suppliers to identify mutual cost-saving opportunities.


               783. Short Answer
Companies must undertake ongoing and persistent efforts to be cost-efficient and develop differentiation advantages. A company’s value-creating activities can offer a competitive advantage in one of two ways: contribute to greater efficiency and lower costs and provide a basis for differentiation.


               784. Short Answer
Rectifying a weakness in a company’s customer value proposition can include one or more of the following three approaches: (1) implement the use of best practices throughout the company, particularly for activities that are important for creating customer value—product design, product quality, or customer service; (2) adopt best practices for marketing, brand management, and customer relationship management to improve brand image and customer loyalty; and (3) reallocate resources to activities having a significant impact on value delivered to customers—larger R&D budgets, new state-of-the-art production facilities, new distribution centers, modernized service centers, or enhanced budgets for marketing campaigns.


               785. Short Answer
There are three main ways to combat a cost disadvantage in the forward portion (distributor-dealer) segment of the industry value chain: (1) pressure dealer-distributors and other forward channel allies to reduce their costs and markups; (2) work closely with forward channel allies to identify win–win opportunities to reduce costs, and (3) change to a more economical distribution strategy, that is, integrate forward into company-owned retail outlets.


               786. Short Answer
A company’s competitive strength scores pinpoint its strengths and weaknesses against rivals and point to offensive and defensive strategies capable of producing first-rate results. Competitive strength assessments thus provide useful conclusions about a company’s competitive situation. Ranking a company against its major rivals shows how a company compares against rivals, factor by factor (or capability by capability), thus revealing where it is strongest and weakest. Moreover, the overall competitive strength scores indicate whether or not a company is at a net competitive advantage or disadvantage against each rival.


               787. Short Answer
Industry and competitive analyses reveal the key success factors and competitive forces that separate industry winners from losers. Benchmarking data and scouting key competitors provide a basis for judging rivals’ competitive strength on several factors such as cost, key product attributes, customer service, image and reputation, financial strength, technological skills, distribution capability, and other factors. Resource and capability analysis reveals which of these are competitively important, given the external situation, and whether the company’s competitive advantages are sustainable. Weights are assigned to each of the measures of competitive strength based on their perceived importance. High-weighted competitive strength ratings signal a strong competitive position and possession of competitive advantage; low ratings signal a weak position and competitive disadvantage. In addition to showing how competitively strong or weak a company is relative to rivals, the strength ratings provide guidelines for designing wise offensive and defensive strategies. Based on these ratings, a clear picture emerges on exactly what strategic and competitive challenges confront the company, which of the company’s competitive shortcomings need fixing, and what specific problems merit company managers’ front-burner attention.


               788. Short Answer
Competitive strength scores provide useful conclusions about a company’s competitive situation, including the cost-effectiveness of its value chain, as shown in Table 4.3. Moreover, the strength rating provides guidance in all areas above, except regarding whether or not a company should shore up its weaknesses by adopting best practices and/or revamping the makeup of its value chain.


               789. Short Answer
Competitive strength scores provide useful conclusions about a company’s competitive situation, including the cost-effectiveness of its value chain, as shown in Table 4.3. Moreover, the overall competitive strength scores indicate whether or not a company’s value chain places it at a net competitive advantage or disadvantage against each rival.


               790. Short Answer
True. The most important analytical step is to zero in on exactly what strategic issues company managers need to address. This step involves drawing on the results of both industry and competitive analysis and the evaluations of the company’s internal situation. The task here is to get a clear fix on exactly what industry and competitive challenges confront the company, which of the company’s internal weaknesses need fixing, and what specific problems merit front-burner attention by company managers.


               791. Short Answer
Compiling a “worry list” of problems and issues creates an agenda for managerial strategy making. Pinpointing the precise things that management needs to worry about sets the agenda for deciding what actions to take next to improve the company’s performance and business outlook.


               792. Short Answer
A value chain analysis for Facebook should reveal resource strengths in the following primary activities:
   * Operations
   * Sales and Marketing
   * Supply Chain Management
   * Distribution
   * Service
   * Product R&D, Technology, and Systems Development
   * General Administration
   * Human Resources Management


               793. Short Answer
Your assessment was indeed incomplete, because managers need to draw on the results of both industry analysis and the evaluations of the company’s internal situation. The task here is to get a clear fix on exactly what strategic and competitive challenges confront the company, which of the company’s competitive shortcomings need fixing, and what specific problems merit company managers’ front-burner attention. Pinpointing the precise things that management needs to worry about sets the agenda for deciding what actions to take next to improve the company’s performance and business outlook.


               794. Short Answer
The three moves to achieve improved cost competitiveness in the forward portion of the hotel industry value chain are as follows:
                  12. Pressure distributors, dealers, and other supply chain partners to reduce their costs and markups.
                  13. Collaborate with these partners to identify win–win opportunities that derive higher added value (such as entry into the boutique hotel segment) to reduce costs.
                  14. Change to a more economical reservations and customer loyalty system.
Rectifying a weakness in a company’s customer value proposition can include one or more of the following three approaches: (1) implement the use of best practices throughout the company, particularly for activities that are important for creating customer value—product design, product quality, or customer service; (2) adopt best practices for marketing, brand management, and customer relationship management to improve brand image and customer loyalty; and (3) reallocate resources to activities having a significant impact on value delivered to customers—larger R&D budgets, new state-of-the-art boutique hotel facilities, new in-hotel dining experiences, modernized front desk and reservations systems, or enhanced budgets for marketing campaigns.


               795. Short Answer
                  1. How well is Lola’s Markets’ present strategy working?
                  2. What are Lola’s Markets’ most important resources and capabilities, and will they give this company a lasting competitive advantage over rival companies?
                  3. What are Lola’s Markets’ strengths and weaknesses in relation to the market opportunities and external threats?
                  4. How do Lola’s Markets’ value chain activities impact its cost structure and customer value proposition?
                  5. Is Lola’s Markets’ competitively stronger or weaker than its key rivals?
                  6. What strategic issues and problems merit front-burner managerial attention at Lola’s Markets?
The two best indicators of how well Lola’s Markets’ strategy is working are (1) whether the company is recording gains in financial strength and profitability and (2) whether the company’s competitive strength and market standing are improving.


               796. Short Answer
Answer: True. Although the beauty of SWOT analysis is its simplicity, this is also its primary limitation. For a deeper and more accurate understanding of a company’s situation, more sophisticated tools such as resource analysis, value chain analysis, and benchmarking are required. However, using resource analysis, value chain analysis, and benchmarking to determine a company’s competitiveness on value and cost is necessary but not sufficient. A more comprehensive assessment needs to be made of the company’s overall competitive strength, which can be done via a competitive strength assessment.


               797. Short Answer
A best practice is a method of performing an activity that consistently delivers superior results compared to other approaches. Benchmarking is a potent tool for improving a company’s own internal activities that is based on learning how other companies perform them and borrowing their best practices. Best practices thus lead the path to operating excellence with respect to value chain activities.


               798. Short Answer
The means to restoring Grubhub’s differentiation advantage through activities at the forward end of the value chain system include the following three options:
                  7. engaging in cooperative advertising and promotions with forward allies (dealers, distributors, retailers, etc.)
                  8. creating exclusive arrangements with downstream sellers or utilizing other mechanisms that increase their incentives to enhance delivered customer value
                  9. creating and enforcing standards for downstream activities and assisting in training channel partners in business practices.
Consistent with options #1 and #2 above, Grubhub struck a deal with Amazon in early July 2022, engaging in cooperative advertising for a new service called Grubhub+ and offering restaurant delivery services without a fee for Amazon Prime members.


               799. Short Answer
See Figure 5.1. Low-cost (broad or focused), differentiation, (broad or focused), and a hybrid or best-cost provider are the five generic types of competitive strategies.


               800. Short Answer
A cost driver is a factor having a strong effect on the cost of a company’s value chain activities and cost structure. See Figure 5.2 for a list of cost drivers. Aspects of a low-cost leadership strategy can include: (1) striving to capture all available economies of scale, (2) taking full advantage of experience and learning-curve effects, (3) trying to operate facilities at full capacity, (4) substituting lower-cost inputs whenever there’s little or no sacrifice in product quality or product performance, (5) employing advanced production technology and process design to improve overall efficiency, (6) using communication systems and information technology to achieve operating efficiencies, (7) using the company’s bargaining power vis-à-vis suppliers to gain concessions, (8) being alert to the cost advantages of outsourcing and vertical integration, and (9) pursuing ways to boost labor productivity and lower overall compensation costs.


               801. Short Answer
A focused low-cost strategy aims at securing a competitive advantage by serving buyers in the target market niche at a lower cost and lower price than those of rival competitors.
This strategy has considerable attraction when a firm can lower costs significantly by limiting its customer base to a well-defined buyer segment. The avenues to achieving a cost advantage over rivals also serving the target market niche are the same as those for low-cost leadership—use the cost drivers to keep the costs of value chain activities to a bare minimum and search for innovative ways to bypass nonessential activities. The only real difference between a low-cost provider strategy and a focused low-cost strategy is the size of the buyer group to which a company is appealing—the former involves a product offering that appeals broadly to almost all buyer groups and market segments, whereas the latter aims at just meeting the needs of buyers in a narrow market segment.
However, focused low-cost strategies become unattractive when:
   * competitors find effective ways to match the focused firm’s capabilities in serving the target niche.
   * preferences and needs of niche members shift over time with respect to the product attributes desired by the majority of buyers.
   * differences across buyer segments erode and lower entry barriers into a focuser’s market niche, thereby providing an open invitation for rivals in adjacent segments to begin competing for the focuser’s customers.
   * the segment becomes so attractive it is soon inundated with competitors, intensifying rivalry and splintering segment profits.


               802. Short Answer
See Figures 5.2 and 5.3. A cost driver is a factor that has a strong effect on the cost of a company’s value chain activities and ability to become a low-cost provider, whereas uniqueness driver is a value chain activity or factor that can have a strong impact on customer value and creating differentiation. Cost drivers include (1) striving to capture all available economies of scale, (2) taking full advantage of experience and learning-curve effects, (3) trying to operate facilities at full capacity, (4) substituting lower-cost inputs whenever there’s little or no sacrifice in product quality or product performance, (5) employing advanced production technology and process design to improve overall efficiency, (6) using communication systems and information technology to achieve operating efficiencies; (7) using the company’s bargaining power vis-à-vis suppliers to gain concessions, (8) being alert to the cost advantages of outsourcing and vertical integration, and (9) pursuing ways to boost labor productivity and lower overall compensation costs. Uniqueness drivers, on the other hand, include such factors as (1) high-quality inputs; (2) innovation and technological advances; (3) superior product features; (4) production-related R&D investments; (5) continuous quality improvement; (6) improving skills of personnel, marketing and brand-building; and (7) enhanced customer service.


               803. Short Answer
Achieving a low-cost edge over rivals comes from eliminating and/or curbing “nonessential” activities and out-managing rivals in performing essential activities. A cost driver is a factor having a strong effect on the cost of a company’s value chain activities and cost structure. See Figure 5.2 for a list of cost drivers. Aspects of a low-cost leadership strategy can include: (1) striving to capture all available economies of scale, (2) taking full advantage of experience and learning-curve effects, (3) trying to operate facilities at full capacity, (4) substituting lower-cost inputs whenever there’s little or no sacrifice in product quality or product performance, (5) employing advanced production technology and process design to improve overall efficiency, (6) using communication systems and information technology to achieve operating efficiencies, (7) using the company’s bargaining power vis-à-vis suppliers to gain concessions, (8) being alert to the cost advantages of outsourcing and vertical integration, and (9) pursuing ways to boost labor productivity and lower overall compensation costs. A focused strategy based on low cost, on the other hand, aims at securing a competitive advantage by serving buyers in a target market niche at a lower cost and a lower price than rival competitors. This strategy has considerable attraction when a firm can lower costs significantly by limiting its customer base to a well-defined buyer segment. The avenues to achieving a cost advantage over rivals also serving the target market niche are the same as for low-cost leadership: out-managing rivals in keeping the costs to a bare minimum and searching for innovative ways to bypass or reduce nonessential activities. The only real difference between a low-cost provider strategy and a focused low-cost strategy is the size of the buyer group to which a company is appealing.


               804. Short Answer
See Figure 5.3. Aspects of a broad differentiation strategy can include: (1) seeking out high-quality input; (2) striving for innovation and technological advances; (3) creating superior product features, design, and performance; (4) investing in production-related R&D activities; (5) pursuing continuous quality improvement; (6) emphasizing human resource management activities that improve the skills, expertise, and knowledge of company personnel; (7) increasing emphasis on marketing and brand-building activities; and (8) improving customer service or adding additional services. A broad differentiation strategy tends to work best when: (1) buyer needs and uses of the product are diverse; (2) there are many ways to differentiate the product or service that have value to buyers; (3) few rival firms are following a similar differentiation approach; and (4) technological change is fast-paced and competition revolves around rapidly evolving product features.


               805. Short Answer
A focused differentiation strategy is keyed to offering carefully designed products or services to appeal to the unique preferences and needs of a narrow, well-defined group of buyers, or market niche, whereas a broad differentiation strategy is aimed at a mass market composed of many buyer groups and market segments.


               806. Short Answer
As opposed to broader market strategies, a focused strategy based on low cost aims at securing a competitive advantage by serving buyers in the target market niche at a lower cost and a lower price than rival competitors. This strategy has considerable attraction when a firm can lower costs significantly by limiting its customer base to a well-defined buyer segment. Focused differentiation strategies, on the other hand, are keyed to offering carefully designed products or services to appeal to the unique preferences and needs of a narrow, well-defined group of buyers, or market niche, instead of a broad differentiation strategy that is aimed at many buyer groups and market segments.


               807. Short Answer
A low-cost provider strategy tends to work best when the products of rival sellers are essentially identical and are readily available from several sellers. Commodity-like products and/or ample supplies set the stage for lively price competition; in such markets, it is the less-efficient, higher-cost companies that are most vulnerable.


               808. Short Answer
Differentiation strategies are attractive whenever buyers’ needs and preferences are too diverse to be fully satisfied by a standardized product offering. It allows a firm to do one or more of the following:
   * Command a premium price for its product.
   * Increase unit sales (because additional buyers are won over by the differentiating features).
   * Gain buyer loyalty to its brand (because some buyers are strongly attracted to the differentiating features and bond with the company and its products).
   * Buyer needs and uses of the product are diverse.
   * There are many ways to differentiate the product or service that have value to buyers.
   * Few rival firms are following a similar differentiation approach.
   * Technological change is fast-paced and competition revolves around rapidly evolving product features.


               809. Short Answer
Following are the pitfalls in pursuing a broad differentiation strategy:
   * focusing on product or service attributes that are easily and quickly copied
   * buyers seeing little value in the unique attributes of a company’s product
   * overspending on efforts to differentiate the company’s product offering, thus eroding profitability
   * offering only trivial improvements in quality, service, or performance features vis-à-vis rivals’ products
   * over-differentiating so that product quality, features, or service levels exceed the needs of most buyers
   * charging too high a price premium.


               810. Short Answer
True. A company’s biggest vulnerability in employing a best-cost provider strategy is not having the requisite core competencies and efficiencies in managing value chain activities to support the addition of differentiating features without significantly increasing costs. A company with a modest degree of differentiation and no real cost advantage will most likely find itself squeezed (or “trapped in the middle”) between the firms using low-cost strategies and those using differentiation strategies. Thus, a successful best-cost provider must offer buyers significantly better product attributes to justify a price above what low-cost leaders are charging. Likewise, it has to achieve significantly lower costs in providing upscale features so that it can outcompete high-end differentiators on the basis of a significantly lower price.


               811. Short Answer
Getting squeezed between the strategies of rival financial services companies using low-cost and high-end differentiation strategies is one of the major risks of a best-cost strategy. Success in sustaining a best-cost strategy requires that a company possess the resources and capabilities to incorporate upscale product or service attributes at a lower cost than rivals, which implies the ability to profitably offer the financial services customer, regardless of geography or segment, more value for her or his money.


               812. Short Answer
See Figure 5.1. Low-cost (broad or focused), differentiation, (broad or focused), and a hybrid or best-cost provider are the five generic types of competitive strategies.


               813. Short Answer
As intimated in Illustration Capsule 5.4, Trader Joe’s biggest vulnerability in employing a best-cost provider strategy is getting squeezed between the strategies of rival supermarkets using low-cost and high-end differentiation strategies. Low-cost providers like Walmart, Food4Less, and Grocery Outlet may be able to siphon customers away with the appeal of a lower price (despite less appealing product attributes). High-end differentiators like Whole Foods, Sprouts, Natural Grocers, or smaller local boutique supermarket chains may be able to steal customers away with the appeal of better product attributes (even though their products carry a higher price tag).


               814. Short Answer
Strategic assets are a company’s most valuable resources and capabilities such as a better-known brand name, a more-efficient production or distribution system, greater technological capability, or a superior reputation for quality. Ignoring the need to tie a strategic offensive to a company’s competitive strengths and what it does best is like going to war with a popgun—the prospects for success are dim. For instance, it is foolish for a company with relatively high costs to employ a price-cutting offensive. Likewise, it is ill-advised to pursue a product innovation offensive without having proven expertise in R&D and new product development.


               815. Short Answer
A blue-ocean strategy seeks to gain a dramatic and durable competitive advantage by abandoning efforts to beat out competitors in existing markets and, instead, inventing a new industry or distinctive market segment that renders existing competitors largely irrelevant and allows a company to create and capture altogether new demand. Blue-ocean strategies provide a company with a great opportunity in the short run. But they don’t guarantee a company’s long-term success, which depends more on whether a company can protect the market position it opened up.


               816. Short Answer
The purposes of defensive strategies are to lower the risk of being attacked, weaken the impact of any attack that occurs, and influence challengers to aim their efforts at other rivals. Examples of defensive strategies are: (1) adding new features or models and otherwise broadening the product line to close off vacant niches and gaps to opportunity-seeking challengers, (2) thwarting the efforts of rivals to attack with lower prices by maintaining economy-priced options of its own, (3) signaling challengers that retaliation is likely in the event that they launch an attack, and (4) making early announcements about impending new products or price changes to induce potential buyers to postpone switching.


               817. Short Answer
Being first to initiate a strategic move can have a high payoff when (1) pioneering helps build a firm’s image and reputation with buyers; (2) early commitments to new technologies, new-style components, new or emerging distribution channels, and so on can produce an absolute cost advantage over rivals; (3) first-time customers remain strongly loyal to pioneering firms in making repeat purchases; and (4) moving first constitutes a preemptive strike, making imitation extra hard or unlikely. In situations in which rapid market evolution including growth in demand occurs (due to fast-paced changes in either technology or buyer needs and expectations), fast followers and maybe even cautious late movers have an opening to leapfrog a first mover’s products with more attractive next-version or even complementary products.


               818. Short Answer
Sometimes, furious technological change or product innovation makes a first mover vulnerable to next-generation technology or products. Markets can be slow to adopt the innovative product offering of a first mover, in which case a fast- (or late-) follower with substantial resources and marketing muscle can overtake a first mover.


               819. Short Answer
Merger and acquisition strategies typically attempt to achieve any of five objectives: (1) extending the company’s business into new product categories; (2) creating a more cost-efficient operation out of the combined companies; (3) expanding a company’s geographic coverage; (4) gaining quick access to new technologies or complementary resources and capabilities; and (5) leading the convergence of industries whose boundaries are being blurred by changing technologies and new market opportunities.
However, as demonstrated by the failed merger of News Corporation and MySpace, mergers and acquisitions do not always produce the hoped-for outcomes. This is because: (1) cost savings may prove smaller than expected; (2) gains in competitive capabilities may take substantially longer to realize or, worse, may never materialize; (3) efforts to mesh the corporate cultures can stall due to formidable resistance from organization members; (4) key employees at the acquired company can quickly become disenchanted and leave; (5) the morale of company personnel who remain can drop to disturbingly low levels because they disagree with newly instituted changes; (6) differences in management styles and operating procedures can prove hard to resolve; and (7) managers appointed to oversee the integration of a newly acquired company can make mistakes in deciding which activities to leave alone and which activities to meld into their own operations and systems.


               820. Short Answer
There are circumstances in which horizontal integration via merger and acquisition are preferable to alliances and partnering. Mergers and acquisitions are especially suited for situations in which strategic alliances or partnerships do not go far enough in providing a company with access to needed resources and capabilities. Ownership ties are more permanent than partnership ties, allowing the operations of the merger or acquisition participants to be tightly integrated and creating more in-house control and autonomy. Other organizational mechanisms are also preferable to alliances; when there is limited property rights protection for valuable know-how companies may fear being taken advantage of by opportunistic partners.


               821. Short Answer
Hit-and-run (also known as guerrilla) offensives are considered to be strategic moves incorporating the element of surprise. These surprise offensives are particularly well suited to small or medium-sized challengers like Emerald City that have neither the resources nor the market visibility to mount a full-fledged attack on industry leaders.
A preemptive strike by a challenger like Emerald City means moving first (and quickly) to secure advantageous competitive assets that rivals cannot readily match or duplicate. Examples of preemptive moves include: (1) securing the best distributors in a particular geographic region or country; (2) moving to obtain the most favorable site at a new interchange or intersection, near to airports and rail transportation hubs, and so on; and (3) tying up the most reliable, high-quality pet grooming and veterinary practitioners via exclusive partnerships, long-term contracts, or even acquisition.
The best targets for offensive attacks like hit-and-run or preemptive strike include: (1) market leaders that are vulnerable; (2) runner-up firms that possess weaknesses in areas where the challenger is strong; (3) struggling enterprises that are on the verge of going under; and (4) small local and regional firms that possess limited capabilities and resources—the latter of which is probably typical in the canine care industry. To be successful, neither offensive move has to totally block rivals from following or copying; it merely needs to provide the challenger—Emerald City—with a prime position that is not easily circumvented.



               822. Short Answer
Backward vertical integration can produce a differentiation-based competitive advantage when performing activities internally contributes to a better-quality product/service offering, improves the caliber of customer service, or in other ways enhances the performance of a final product. Other potential advantages of backward integration include sparing a company the uncertainty of being dependent on suppliers for crucial components or support services and lessening a company’s vulnerability to powerful suppliers inclined to raise prices at every opportunity. For backward integration to be a viable and profitable strategy, a company must be able to (1) achieve the same scale economies as outside suppliers and (2) match or beat suppliers’ production efficiency with no decline in quality. Furthermore, the best potential for being able to reduce costs via a backward integration strategy exists in situations where suppliers have very large profit margins, where the item being supplied is a major cost component, and where the requisite technological skills are easily mastered or acquired.


               823. Short Answer
Forward vertical integration allows manufacturers to gain better access to end-users, improve market visibility, and include the end-user’s purchasing experience as a differentiating feature.


               824. Short Answer
Among the most serious drawbacks to vertical integration are: (1) vertical integration increases a firm’s capital investment in its industry, (2) integrating into more industry value chain segments increases business risk if industry growth and profitability sour, (3) vertically integrated companies are often slow to embrace technological advances or more-efficient production methods, (4) integrating backward potentially results in less flexibility in accommodating shifting buyer preferences, (5) vertical integration poses all kinds of capacity-matching problems, and (6) integration forward or backward often requires the development of new skills and business capabilities.


               825. Short Answer
The advantages of outsourcing include: (1) an activity can be performed better or more cheaply by outside specialists; (2) said activity is not crucial to the firm’s ability to achieve sustainable competitive advantage and won’t hollow out its capabilities, core competencies, or technical know-how; (3) it improves organizational flexibility and speeds time to market; (4) it reduces the company’s risk exposure to changing technology and/or buyer preferences; and (5) it allows a company to concentrate on its core business, leverage its key resources and core competencies, and do even better what it already does best.


               826. Short Answer
Has outsourcing make good strategic sense for Tesla?
Yes, at least thus far. Outsourcing strategies narrow the scope of a business’s operations, in terms of what activities are performed internally. For example, Tesla commissioned what it called the world’s largest casting machines from Chinese manufacturer LK in 2019; can make the rear body of a car consisting of a single piece, reducing the number of individual components and reducing costs. A company like Tesla can thereby improve its cost position and competitiveness by performing a broader range of industry value chain activities in-house rather than having such activities performed by outside suppliers. When there are few suppliers and when the item being supplied is a major component, vertical integration can lower costs by limiting supplier power. Vertical integration can also lower costs by facilitating the coordination of production flows and avoiding bottleneck problems. Furthermore, when a company has proprietary know-how that it wants to keep from rivals, then in-house performance of value-adding activities related to this know-how is beneficial even if such activities could otherwise be performed by outsiders. Outsourcing certain value chain activities makes strategic sense whenever:
   * An activity can be performed better or more cheaply by outside specialists.
   * The activity is not crucial to the firm’s ability to achieve sustainable competitive advantage.
   * The outsourcing improves organizational flexibility and speeds time to market.
   * It reduces the company’s risk exposure to changing technology and buyer preferences.
   * It allows a company to concentrate on its core business, leverage its key resources, and do even better what it already does best.


               827. Short Answer
The most common reasons companies enter into strategic alliances are to expedite the development of promising new technologies or products, to overcome deficits in their own technical and manufacturing expertise, to bring together the personnel and expertise needed to create desirable new skill sets and capabilities, to improve supply chain efficiency, to gain economies of scale in production and/or marketing, and to acquire or improve market access through joint marketing agreements.


               828. Short Answer
Typical reasons why strategic alliances prove to be difficult include: (1) diverging objectives and priorities, (2) inability of partners to work well together, (3) changing conditions that make the purpose of the alliance obsolete, (4) emergence of more attractive technological paths, and (5) marketplace rivalry between one or more allies.


               829. Short Answer
Strategic cooperation is a much-favored approach in industries where new technological developments are occurring at a furious pace along many different paths and where advances in one technology spill over to affect others (often blurring industry boundaries). Whenever industries are experiencing high-velocity technological advances in many areas simultaneously, firms find it virtually essential to have cooperative relationships with other enterprises to stay on the leading edge of technology, even in their own area of specialization. In industries like these, alliances are all about fast cycles of learning, gaining quick access to the latest round of technological know-how, and developing dynamic capabilities. In bringing together firms with different skills and knowledge bases, alliances open up learning opportunities that help partner firms better leverage their own resources and capabilities.


               830. Short Answer
Prior to engaging in a strategic alliance, a company must:
                  10. Pick a good partner. A good partner must bring complementary strengths to the relationship. To the extent that alliance members have non-overlapping strengths, there is greater potential for synergy and less potential for coordination problems and conflict. In addition, a good partner needs to share the company’s vision about the overall purpose of the alliance and to have specific goals that either match or complement those of the company. Strong partnerships also depend on good chemistry among key personnel and compatible views about how the alliance should be structured and managed.
                  11. Be sensitive to cultural differences. Cultural differences among companies can make it difficult for their personnel to work together effectively. Cultural differences can be problematic among companies from the same country, but when the partners have different national origins, the problems are often magnified. Unless there is respect among all the parties for cultural differences, including those stemming from different local cultures and local business practices, productive working relationships are unlikely to emerge.
                  12. Recognize that the alliance must benefit both sides. Information must be shared as well as gained, and the relationship must remain forthright and trustful. If either partner plays games with information or tries to take advantage of the other, the resulting friction can quickly erode the value of further collaboration. Open, trustworthy behavior on both sides is essential for fruitful collaboration.


               831. Short Answer
Three factors that can aid companies in forming a successful strategic alliance are:
                  13. Recognizing that the alliance must benefit both sides. Information must be shared as well as gained, and the relationship must remain forthright and trustful. If either partner plays games with information or tries to take advantage of the other, the resulting friction can quickly erode the value of further collaboration. Open, trustworthy behavior on both sides is essential for fruitful collaboration.
                  14. Ensuring that both parties live up to their commitments. Both parties have to deliver on their commitments for the alliance to produce the intended benefits. The division of work has to be perceived as fairly apportioned, and the caliber of the benefits received on both sides has to be perceived as adequate.
                  15. Structuring the decision-making process so that actions can be taken swiftly when needed. In many instances, the fast pace of technological and competitive changes dictates an equally fast decision-making process. If the parties get bogged down in discussions or in gaining internal approval from higher-ups, the alliance can turn into an anchor of delay and inaction.


               832. Short Answer
There are circumstances when other organizational mechanisms are preferable to alliances and partnering. Mergers and acquisitions are especially suited for situations in which strategic alliances or partnerships do not go far enough in providing a company with access to needed resources and capabilities. Ownership ties are more permanent than partnership ties, allowing the operations of the merger or acquisition participants to be tightly integrated and creating more in-house control and autonomy. Other organizational mechanisms are also preferable to alliances when there is limited property rights protection for valuable know-how and when companies fear being taken advantage of by opportunistic partners.


               833. Short Answer
Bypassing regular wholesale/retail channels in favor of direct sales and Internet retailing can have appeal if it lowers distribution costs, produces a relative cost advantage over certain rivals, offers higher margins, or results in lower selling prices to end-users. In addition, sellers are compelled to include the Internet as a retail channel when a sufficiently large number of buyers in an industry prefer to make purchases online. However, in industries where the strong support and goodwill of dealer networks is essential, companies may conclude that it is important to avoid channel conflict and that their website should be designed to partner with dealers rather than compete with them via direct sales or Internet retailing.


               834. Short Answer
A company may opt to expand outside its home country for a variety of reasons, including: (1) the ability to gain access to new customers; (2) to achieve lower costs and enhance competitiveness; (3) to leverage core competencies in new markets; (4) to gain access to resources and capabilities (labor, resources, technology, distribution networks) in foreign markets; and (5) to spread business risk across a wider market base.


               835. Short Answer
A company may be able to extend a market-leading position in its domestic market into a position of regional or global market leadership by leveraging its core competencies further. Walmart is capitalizing on its considerable expertise in discount retailing to expand into the United Kingdom, Japan, China, and Latin America. Walmart executives believe the company has tremendous growth opportunities in China. Companies can often leverage their resources internationally by replicating a successful business model, using it as a basic blueprint for international operations, as Starbucks and McDonald’s have done.


               836. Short Answer
Heterogeneous market conditions across countries influence a company’s strategy choices in international markets. These conditions include: (1) buyer tastes, differing population sizes, income levels, market growth rates, and other demographic factors that influence product customization decisions; (2) wage rates, worker productivity, energy costs, environmental regulations, tax rates, and inflation rates that influence location choices; and (3) government policies, economic risk, and political risk that make a country’s business climate attractive or unattractive.


               837. Short Answer
The competitive role of low manufacturing costs is most evident in low-wage countries like China, India, Pakistan, Cambodia, Vietnam, Mexico, Brazil, Guatemala, the Philippines, as well as several countries in Africa and Eastern Europe that have become production havens for manufactured goods with high labor content (especially textiles and apparel). The governments of some of these countries are anxious to attract foreign investments, and will therefore go all out to create a business climate that outsiders will view as favorable. Such governments may provide incentives such as reduced taxes, low-cost loans, site location and site-development assistance, and government-sponsored training for workers to encourage companies to construct production and distribution facilities. On the other hand, governments of these countries sometimes enact policies that, from a business perspective, make locating facilities within that country’s borders less attractive. For example, the nature of a company’s operations may make it particularly costly to achieve compliance with a country’s environmental regulations. To discourage foreign imports, governments may impose tariffs or quotas on imports. Additionally, they may require partial ownership of foreign company operations by local companies or investors.


               838. Short Answer
The five general modes for entering foreign markets are: (1) exporting from a national base; (2) licensing foreign firms to produce and distribute goods and services abroad; (3) franchising involving local ownership; (4) establishing a subsidiary via acquisition or internal development; and (5) relying on strategic alliances, joint ventures, and other cooperative agreements with foreign companies.


               839. Short Answer
Strategic alliances, joint ventures, and other cooperative agreements with foreign companies are a favorite and potentially fruitful means for entering a foreign market or strengthening a firm’s competitiveness in world markets because these approaches can: (1) strengthen a company’s ability to gain a foothold in a desirable market; (2) help capture economies of scale in production and/or marketing; (3) fill gaps in technical expertise and/or knowledge of local markets (buying habits and product preferences of consumers, local customs, and so on); (4) enable sharing of distribution facilities and dealer networks to mutually strengthen access to buyers; and (5) refocus energies away from competition between allies and instead toward teaming up to close the gap on leading companies; and (6) permit each partner to preserve its independence and avoid using perhaps scarce financial resources to fund acquisitions.


               840. Short Answer
Among the benefits of using strategic alliances to compete in foreign markets are: (1) strengthening a company’s ability to gain a foothold in a desirable market; (2) capturing economies of scale in production and/or marketing; (3) filling gaps in technical expertise and/or knowledge of local markets (buying habits and product preferences of consumers, local customs, and so on); (4) sharing distribution facilities and dealer networks to mutually strengthen access to buyers; and (5) refocusing energies away from competition between allies and instead toward teaming up to close the gap on leading companies; and (6) allowing each partner to preserve its independence and avoid using perhaps scarce financial resources to fund acquisitions. The risks of using strategic alliances include: (1) cross-border allies typically have to overcome language and cultural barriers, and figure out how to deal with diverse (or perhaps conflicting) operating practices; (2) communication, trust-building, and coordination costs are high in terms of management time; and (3) partners may discover they have conflicting objectives and strategies, deep differences of opinion about how to proceed, or important differences in corporate values and ethical standards.


               841. Short Answer
Strategy options for expanding into markets of foreign countries include: (1) exporting from a national base; (2) licensing foreign firms to produce and distribute goods and services abroad; (3) franchising involving local ownership; (4) establishing a subsidiary via acquisition or internal development; and (5) relying on strategic alliances, joint ventures, and other cooperative agreements with foreign companies. Which option to employ depends on a variety of factors, including the nature of the firm’s strategic objectives, the firm’s position in terms of whether it has the full range of resources and capabilities needed to operate abroad, country-specific factors such as trade barriers, and the transaction costs involved (the costs of contracting with a partner and monitoring its compliance with the terms of the contract, for example). The options vary considerably regarding the level of investment required and the associated risks—but higher levels of investment and risk generally provide the firm with the benefits of greater ownership and control.
Licensing as an entry strategy for this company probably makes the most sense because this is a company with valuable design know-how, an appealing brand, and a unique patented product line that has neither the internal organizational capability nor the resources to enter foreign markets. Licensing also has the advantage of avoiding the risks of committing resources to country markets that are unfamiliar, politically volatile, economically unstable, or otherwise risky.


               842. Short Answer
Strategic alliances, joint ventures, and other cooperative agreements with foreign companies are a favorite and potentially fruitful means for entering a foreign market or strengthening a firm’s competitiveness in world markets because these approaches can: (1) strengthen a company’s ability to gain a foothold in a desirable market; (2) help capture economies of scale in production and/or marketing; (3) fill gaps in technical expertise and/or knowledge of local markets (buying habits and product preferences of consumers, local customs, and so on); (4) enable sharing of distribution facilities and dealer networks to mutually strengthen access to buyers; and (5) refocus energies away from competition between allies and instead toward teaming up to close the gap on leading companies; and (6) permit each partner to preserve its independence and avoid using perhaps scarce financial resources to fund acquisitions.


               843. Short Answer
A multidomestic strategy calls for varying a company’s product offering and competitive approach from country to country in an effort to be responsive to significant cross-country differences in customer preferences, buyer purchasing habits, distribution channels, or marketing methods. Think-local, act-local strategy-making approaches are also essential when host-government regulations or trade policies preclude a uniform, coordinated worldwide market approach. Think-local, act-local strategy-making approaches come with two major drawbacks: (1) they hinder transfer of a company’s competencies and resources across country boundaries because the strategies in different host countries can be grounded in varying competencies and capabilities; and (2) they do not promote building a single, unified competitive advantage, especially one based on low cost. Companies employing highly localized or multidomestic strategies also face big hurdles in achieving low-cost leadership unless they find ways to customize their products and still be in a position to capture scale economies and learning-curve effects. A global strategy is one in which the company’s approach is predominantly the same in all countries: it sells the same products under the same brand names everywhere, utilizes much the same distribution channels in all countries, and competes on the basis of the same capabilities and marketing approaches worldwide. Although the company’s strategy or product offering may be adapted in very minor ways to accommodate specific situations in a few host countries, the company’s fundamental competitive approach (low-cost, differentiation, or focused) remains very much intact worldwide, and local managers stick close to the global strategy. The main drawback to a global strategy is that it puts considerable strategic emphasis on building a global brand name and aggressively pursuing opportunities to transfer ideas, new products, and capabilities from one country to another but ignores country differences.


               844. Short Answer
Multidomestic strategies are best suited for industries where a fairly high degree of local responsiveness is important, when varying a company’s product offering and competitive approach from country to country aids an effort to be responsive to significant cross-country differences in customer preferences, buyer purchasing habits, distribution channels, or marketing methods.


               845. Short Answer
Global strategy is superior to multidomestic strategy in certain situations. Multidomestic strategies are best suited for industries where a fairly high degree of local responsiveness is important; global strategies, utilizing a standard approach to all country markets, are best suited for globally standardized industries. A multidomestic strategy calls for varying a company’s product offering and competitive approach from country to country in an effort to be responsive to significant cross-country differences in customer preferences, buyer purchasing habits, distribution channels, or marketing methods, whereas a global strategy calls for selling the same products under the same brand names everywhere, utilizing much the same distribution channels in all countries, and competing on the basis of the same capabilities and marketing approaches worldwide.


               846. Short Answer
Multidomestic strategies (think local, act local) are best suited for industries where a fairly high degree of local responsiveness is important; global strategies are best suited for globally standardized industries. Global strategies (think global, act global) employ the same basic competitive approach in all countries where a company operates and are best suited to industries that are globally standardized in terms of customer preferences, buyer purchasing habits, distribution channels, or marketing methods. The think-global, act-local strategy is known as a transnational strategy that is, accommodating cross-country variations in buyer tastes, local customs, and market conditions while also striving for the benefits of standardization.


               847. Short Answer
A multidomestic strategy is one in which a company varies its product offering and competitive approach from country to country in an effort to be responsive to differing buyer preferences and market conditions. It is a think-local, act-local type of international strategy, facilitated by decision making decentralized to the local level. A global strategy contrasts sharply with a multidomestic strategy in that it takes a standardized, globally integrated approach to producing, packaging, selling, and delivering the company’s products and services worldwide. A global strategy is one in which a company employs the same basic competitive approach in all countries where it operates, sells standardized products globally, strives to build global brands, and coordinates its actions worldwide with strong headquarters control. It represents a think-global, act-global approach.


               848. Short Answer
A multinational firm can gain competitive advantage by expanding outside its domestic market in two important ways: it can use location to lower costs or help achieve greater product differentiation. That is, multinational companies can achieve a competitive advantage in world markets by locating their value chain activities in whichever nations prove most advantageous, by either concentrating activities in certain locations or dispersing internal processes across multiple locations.


               849. Short Answer
Companies that compete multinationally can pursue competitive advantage in world markets by locating their value chain activities in whichever nations prove most advantageous. Multinational companies should concentrate internal processes in a few locations in the following situations: (1) when the costs of manufacturing or other activities are significantly lower in some geographic locations than in others; (2) when there are significant scale economies; (3) when there is a steep learning curve associated with performing an activity; and/or (4) when certain locations have superior resources, allow better coordination of related activities, or offer other valuable advantages, such as a sophisticated production facility or highly trained local personnel.


               850. Short Answer
Dispersing an internal process across many countries is more advantageous than concentrating it in a single location in some situations. Buyer-related activities, such as distribution to dealers, sales and advertising, and after-sale service, usually must take place close to buyers, making it necessary to physically locate the capability to perform such activities in every country market where a global firm has major customers. Dispersing activities to many locations is also competitively important when high transportation costs, diseconomies of large size, and trade barriers make it too expensive to operate from a central location or to hedge against the risks of fluctuating exchange rates and adverse political developments.


               851. Short Answer
Developing-economy markets such as China, India, Brazil, Indonesia, Thailand, Poland, Russia, and Mexico all present considerable business risks but have huge market size and opportunities for growth, especially as the economies of these countries develop and living standards climb toward levels in the industrialized world; no company pursuing global market leadership can afford to ignore the strategic importance of establishing competitive market positions in China, India, other parts of the Asian-Pacific region, Latin America, and Eastern Europe.


               852. Short Answer
Among the strategy options for tailoring a company’s strategy to fit the sometimes unusual or challenging circumstances presented in developing-country markets are the following: (1) prepare to compete on the basis of low price, (2) modify aspects of the company’s business model or strategy to accommodate local circumstances (but not so much that the company loses the advantage of global scale and global branding), (3) try to change the local market to better match the way the company does business elsewhere, and (4) stay away from those emerging markets where it is impractical or uneconomical to modify the company’s business model to accommodate local circumstances. Company experiences in entering developing markets such as China, India, Russia, and Brazil indicate that profitability seldom comes quickly or easily, so an entrant needs to be patient, work within the system to improve the infrastructure, and lay the foundation for generating sizable revenues and profits once conditions are ripe for market takeoff. Building a market for the company’s products can often turn into a long-term process that involves reeducation of consumers, sizable investments in advertising and promotion to alter tastes and buying habits, and upgrades of the local infrastructure (the supplier base, transportation systems, distribution channels, labor markets, and capital markets). Profitability in emerging markets rarely comes quickly or easily; new entrants have to adapt their business models and strategies to local conditions and be patient in earning a profit.


               853. Short Answer
False. Company experiences in entering developing markets indicate that profitability seldom comes quickly or easily, so an entrant needs to be patient, work within the system to improve the infrastructure, and lay the foundation for generating sizable revenues and profits once conditions are ripe for market takeoff. Building a market for the company’s products can often turn into a long-term process that involves reeducation of consumers, sizable investments in advertising and promotion to alter tastes and buying habits, and upgrades of the local infrastructure (the supplier base, transportation systems, distribution channels, labor markets, and capital markets). New entrants like Annette and Nicole nearly always have to adapt their business models and strategies to local conditions and be patient when it comes to earning a profit.


               854. Short Answer
It makes good strategic sense for a company to consider diversification when it can
   * spot opportunities to expand into industries whose technologies and products complement its present business.
   * leverage existing resources and capabilities by expanding into industries where these same resource strengths are key success factors and valuable competitive assets.
   * combine the related value chain activities of different businesses to achieve lower costs.
   * boast of a powerful and well-known brand name that can be transferred to the products of other businesses and thereby be used as a lever for driving up the sales and profits of such businesses.
   * open up new avenues for reducing costs by diversifying into closely related businesses.
   * encourage knowledge sharing and collaborative activity among the businesses.


               855. Short Answer
Business diversification stands little chance of building shareholder value without passing the following three Tests of Corporate Advantage: the industry attractiveness test, the cost of entry test, and the better-off test.


               856. Short Answer
True. In evaluating the “better-off” test, diversifying into a new business must offer potential for the company’s existing businesses and the new business to perform better together (1 + 1 = 3) under a single corporate umbrella than they would perform operating as independent, stand-alone businesses. That is, creating added value for shareholders via diversification requires building a multibusiness company where the whole is greater than the sum of its parts.


               857. Short Answer
The means of entering new industries and lines of business can take any of three forms: acquisition, internal development, or joint ventures with other companies. Of those forms, acquisition is the most popular means of diversifying into another industry. Not only is it quicker than trying to launch a new operation, but it also offers an effective way to hurdle such entry barriers as acquiring technological know-how, establishing supplier relationships, achieving scale economies, building brand awareness, and securing adequate distribution. Buying an ongoing operation allows the acquirer to move directly to the task of building a strong market position in the target industry, rather than getting bogged down in the fine points of launching a startup.


               858. Short Answer
Any approach to diversification is fine as long as it provides a clear avenue for increasing shareholder value. Diversifying into related businesses where competitively valuable strategic-fit benefits can be captured puts a company’s businesses in position to perform better financially as part of the company than they could have performed as independent enterprises, thus providing a clear avenue for increasing shareholder value and satisfying the better-off test. Where unrelated businesses are concerned, unless the combination of businesses is more profitable together under the corporate umbrella than they are apart as independent businesses, the strategy cannot create economic value for shareholders—unless it does so, there is no real justification for unrelated diversification, since top executives have a fiduciary responsibility to maximize long-term shareholder value for the company’s owners (its shareholders).


               859. Short Answer
Strategic fit occurs when value chains of different businesses present opportunities for cross-business combinations such as skills transfer, cost sharing, or brand sharing. Economies of scope is a major advantage that stems directly from cost-saving strategic fit along the value chains of related businesses. Such economies are open only to a multibusiness enterprise and are the result of a related diversification strategy that allows sibling businesses to share technology, perform R&D together, use common manufacturing or distribution facilities, share a common sales force or distributor/dealer network, and/or share the same administrative infrastructure.


               860. Short Answer
For a prime example, see Concepts & Connections 8.1. Strategic fit in sales and marketing activities between Kraft and Heinz after the merger in 2015 were intended to develop coordinated and more effective advertising campaigns. Also, by combining R&D teams, it was hoped that the Kraft Heinz Company could come out with innovative products that would appeal more to the growing number of on-the-go and health-conscious buyers in the market. 
However, managerial missteps prevented most of the predicted synergies for the Kraft Heinz Company to be realized and, in 2022, the company’s shares were trading at about one-half the 2015 merger share price. Key limitations in building shareholder value were subsequently attributed to a top management team focused on cutting costs rather than implementation changes needed to capture synergies. The extreme cost cutting also allowed the combined entity to lag the industry in the introduction of new products, especially those contributing to health and wellness. Kraft Heinz has also been plagued by poor morale and high turnover, as former employees had cited a culture conflict between top management and the two companies’ premerger values-based cultures.
Thus, while strategic-fit benefits offer the promise of dramatic increases in shareholder value, the benefits cannot materialize without careful planning and committed implementation efforts by management at all levels. 


               861. Short Answer
See Figure 8.1. The two main advantages of unrelated diversification are: (1) spreading risks across completely different businesses and (2) building shareholder value by doing a superior job of selecting which businesses to diversify into and managing the whole collection of businesses in the conglomerate’s portfolio. The two major disadvantages of unrelated diversification are: (1) unrelated diversification requires that corporate executives rely on the skills and expertise of business-level managers to build competitive advantage and boost the performance of individual businesses and (2) without the competitive advantage potential of strategic-fit, consolidated performance of an unrelated group of businesses is unlikely to be better than the sum of what the individual business units could achieve independently in most instances.


               862. Short Answer
Conducting a quantitative appraisal of each of Berkshire Hathaway’s strategic business units’ strengths and competitive positions in their respective industries (primarily energy, financial products and services, and a diverse group covering manufacturing, service, and retailing) not only reveals each business unit’s chances for industry success, but also provides a basis for ranking the units from competitively strongest to weakest. The steps include: (1) evaluating industry attractiveness, (2) evaluating business unit competitive strength, (3) determining the competitive value of strategic fit in diversified companies, (4) checking for resource fit, (5) ranking business units and assigning a priority for resource allocation, and (6) crafting new strategic moves to improve overall corporate performance are the six steps for evaluating a diversified company’s strategy.


               863. Short Answer
The procedure for evaluating the pluses and minuses of a diversified company’s strategy and deciding what actions to take to improve the company’s performance involves six steps: (1) assessing the attractiveness of the industries the company has diversified into, (2) assessing the competitive strength of the company’s business units, (3) evaluating the extent of cross-business strategic fit along the value chains of the company’s various business units, (4) checking whether the firm’s resources fit the requirements of its present business lineup, (5) ranking the performance prospects of the businesses from best to worst and determining a priority for allocating resource, and (6) crafting new strategic moves to improve overall corporate performance.


               864. Short Answer
Related diversification via acquisition makes good strategic sense when the incumbent industry enables your women’s fashion company to create strategic fits with the acquired firm or firms to exploit cross-business value chain activities and resource similarities that could lead to more efficient design, production, distribution, and sale of fashionable clothing. Generally, internal development of a new business has appeal only when (1) the parent company already has in-house most of the resources and capabilities it needs to piece together a new business and compete effectively; (2) there is ample time to launch the business; (3) the internal cost of entry is lower than the cost of entry via acquisition; (4) adding new production capacity will not adversely impact the supply-demand balance in the industry; and (5) incumbent firms are likely to be slow or ineffective in responding to a new entrant’s efforts to crack the market. If the target industry such as fashion design, manufacture, and retailing is already comprised of several relatively large and well-established firms, it will not be appealing for your company to form an internal startup and enter and compete in the same industry.


               865. Short Answer
Conducting a quantitative appraisal of each business unit’s strength and competitive position in its industry not only reveals its chances for industry success but also provides a basis for ranking the units from competitively strongest to weakest.


               866. Short Answer
See Figure 8.3. Using the nine-cell industry attractiveness-competitive strength matrix, a good case can be made for concentrating resources in those businesses that enjoy higher (versus average or lower) degrees of attractiveness and competitive strength, being very selective in making investments in businesses with intermediate positions on the grid, and withdrawing resources from businesses that are lower in attractiveness and strength—unless they offer exceptional profit or cash flow potential. Businesses in the three cells in the lower right corner of the matrix typically are weak performers and have the lowest claim on corporate resources. Such businesses are typically good candidates for being divested or else managed in a manner calculated to squeeze out the maximum cash flows from operations.


               867. Short Answer
A diversified company exhibits resource fit when its businesses add to a company’s overall mix of resources and capabilities and when the parent company has sufficient resources to support its entire group of businesses without spreading itself too thin.


               868. Short Answer
Once a diversified company’s strategy has been evaluated from the perspective of industry attractiveness, competitive strength, strategic fit, and resource fit, the next step is to use this information to rank the performance prospects of the businesses from best to worst. Such ranking helps top-level executives assign each business a priority for resource support and capital investment.


               869. Short Answer
A cash cow generates operating cash flows over and above its internal requirements, whereas a cash hog generates operating cash flows that are too small to fully fund its operations and investment requirements.


               870. Short Answer
As a rule, business subsidiaries with the brightest profit and growth prospects, attractive positions in the nine-cell matrix, and solid strategic and resource fit should receive top priority for allocation of corporate resources. However, in ranking the prospects of the different businesses from best to worst, it is usually wise to also consider each business’s past performance as concerns sales growth, profit growth, contribution to company earnings, return on capital invested in the business, and cash flow from operations. Competitively strong businesses in attractive industries have significantly better performance prospects than competitively weak businesses in unattractive industries.


               871. Short Answer
Strategic moves to improve a diversified company’s overall performance include (1) sticking closely with the existing business lineup and pursuing the opportunities these businesses present; (2) broadening the company’s business scope by making new acquisitions in new industries; (3) divesting some businesses and retrenching to a narrower base of business operations; and (4) restructuring the company’s business lineup and putting a whole new face on the company’s business makeup.


               872. Short Answer
Several motivating factors for broadening Ross’s current business via diversification could be in play. One is sluggish growth that makes the potential revenue and profit boost of a newly acquired business look attractive. A second is the potential for transferring resources and capabilities to other related or complementary businesses. A third is rapidly changing conditions in one or more of a company’s core businesses, brought on by technological, legislative, or demographic changes. A fourth and very important, motivating factor for adding new businesses is to complement and strengthen the market position and competitive capabilities of one or more of Ross’s present businesses.


               873. Short Answer
Candidates for divestiture in a corporate restructuring effort typically include not only weak or up-and-down performers or those in unattractive industries but also business units that lack strategic fit with the businesses to be retained, businesses that are cash hogs, or businesses in a once-attractive industry that have badly deteriorated.


               874. Short Answer
True. As businesses are divested or spun off, corporate restructuring generally involves aligning the remaining business units into groups with the best strategic fit and then redeploying the cash flows from the divested businesses to either pay down debt or make new acquisitions to strengthen the parent company’s business position in the industries it has chosen to emphasize.
As noted in the chapter, a number of diversified firms have had difficulty managing a diverse group of businesses and have elected to get out of some of them. Selling a business outright to another company is far and away the most frequently used option for divesting a business. In 2022, Newell Brands sold its Connected Home & Security business to Resideo Technologies for $593 million. Nike chose to divest its Cole Haan brand to focus on Jordan and Converse brands that are more complementary to the Nike brand. eBay spun off PayPal in 2015 at a valuation of $45 billion. VF Corporation, maker of North Face and other popular “lifestyle” apparel brands, has used a restructuring strategy to rationalize its management of different types of companies as well as reinvesting the cash into new acquisitions. VF spent nearly $5 billion to acquire 20 additional businesses by 2015, including the $2 billion acquisition of Timberland in 2011. In 2016, the company divested its Contemporary Brands division, which included Ella Moss, 7 for All Mankind, and Spendid. The Dickies workwear brand was acquired in 2017 and the company divested its Nautica and Reef brands in 2018. Altra footwear and Icebreaker Merino wool clothing and accessories brands were acquired in the same year. VF Corporation spun off its entire jean division and outlet store chain as an independent public company in 2019 and acquired the Supreme streetwear brand in 2020. VF divested its workwear division in 2021 to tighten its focus on outdoor and lifestyle brands and was a $9 billion powerhouse in the apparel industry.


               875. Short Answer
There is no difference. Ethical principles in business are not materially different from ethical principles in general because business actions have to be judged in the context of society’s standards of right and wrong. There is no special set of rules that businesspeople decide to apply to their own conduct. If dishonesty is considered unethical and immoral, then dishonest behavior in business—whether it relates to customers, suppliers, employees, or shareholders—qualifies as being equally unethical and immoral. If being ethical entails adhering to generally accepted norms about conduct that is right and wrong, then managers must consider such norms when crafting and executing strategy.


               876. Short Answer
Any company does have a duty to go beyond legal requirements and conform to the ethical norms of the societies in which it operates. A broader understanding of the ethical norms is important to understand rights and wrongs in letter and spirit. Legal regulations dictate only requirements that make actions lawful, while ethical norms dwell deeper into the complexities of morality that are not always black and white like the laws. While most company managers are careful to ensure that a company’s strategy is within the bounds of what is legal, evidence indicates they are not always so careful to ensure that all elements of their strategies and operating activities are within the bounds of what is considered ethical. The consequences of crafting strategies that cannot pass the test of moral scrutiny are manifested in sizeable fines, devastating public relations hits, sharp drops in stock prices that cost shareholders billions of dollars, criminal indictments, and convictions of company executives.


               877. Short Answer
The three drivers of unethical strategies and unethical business behavior are: (1) faulty oversight, (2) heavy pressures on managers to meet performance targets, and (3) company cultures that place profits and performance ahead of ethical behavior. There is generally faulty oversight of executives driven by enlightened self-interest, status, power, greed, arrogance and the like. When key personnel come under pressure to do whatever it takes to meet analysts’ expectations or other performance targets, rules may be stretched and ethical boundaries breached. Finally, cultural pressures to utilize unethical means if circumstances become challenging can prompt otherwise honorable people to behave unethically.


               878. Short Answer
Shareholders suffer major damage when a company’s unethical behavior is discovered and punished. Making amends for unethical business conduct is costly, and it takes years to rehabilitate a tarnished company reputation. Figure 9.1 depicts the costs a company can incur when unethical behavior is discovered and it is forced to make amends for its behavior, and the more egregious a company’s ethical violations, the higher are the costs and the bigger the damage to its reputation. Beyond those retributive costs, buyers tend to shun companies known for their shady behavior. Companies known to have engaged in unethical conduct have difficulty recruiting and retaining talented employees.


               879. Short Answer
Ethical norms considered to be universal include honesty, trustworthiness, respecting the rights of others, practicing the Golden Rule, and avoiding unnecessary harm to workers or to the users of a company’s product or service. That said, however, beyond universal ethical norms, some ethical standards likely vary from one country to another because of divergent religious beliefs, social customs, and prevailing political and economic doctrines. Ethical relativism holds that when there are national or cross-cultural differences in what is deemed an ethical or unethical business situation, it is appropriate for local moral standards to take precedence over what the ethical standards may be in a company’s home market. Yet codes of conduct based upon ethical relativism can be ethically dangerous by creating a maze of conflicting ethical standards for multinational companies. Integrative social contracts theory: (1) suggests that there is a “social contract” by which managers in all situations have a duty to serve and (2) posits that “first-order” universal ethical norms always take precedence over “second-order” local ethical norms in those circumstances in which local ethical norms are more permissive. Integrative social contracts theory offers managers in multinational companies clear guidance in resolving cross-country ethical differences.


               880. Short Answer
Ethical universalism is based on the premise that companies and their personnel should adhere to social norms that include honesty, trustworthiness, respecting the rights of others, practicing the Golden Rule, and avoiding unnecessary harm to workers or to the users of a company’s product or service. Ethical relativism is based on the premise that company personnel should be held only to local ethical standards, which vary from country to country or culture to culture, assuming that what prevails as local morality is an adequate guide to ethical behavior.


               881. Short Answer
True. The school of ethical relativism holds that when there are national or cross-cultural differences in what is deemed an ethical or unethical business situation, it is appropriate for local moral standards to take precedence over what the ethical standards may be in a company’s home market. The thesis is that whatever a culture thinks is right or wrong really is right or wrong for that culture. From a global markets perspective, ethical relativism may result in a maze of conflicting ethical standards for multinational companies.


               882. Short Answer
Integrative social contracts theory: (1) suggests that there is a “social contract” by which managers in all situations have a duty to serve and (2) posits that “first-order” universal ethical norms always take precedence over “second-order” local ethical norms in those circumstances in which local ethical norms are more permissive. That is, universal ethical principles based on collective views of multiple cultures combine to form a “social contract” that all employees in all country markets have a duty to observe. Within the boundaries of this social contract, there is room for host-country cultures to exert some influence in setting their own moral and ethical standards. Integrative social contracts theory thus offers a middle ground between ethical universalism and ethical relativism, and can provide managers in multinational companies with guidance in resolving cross-country ethical differences.


               883. Short Answer
Ethical norms considered universal include honesty, trustworthiness, respecting the rights of others, practicing the Golden Rule, and avoiding unnecessary harm to workers or to the users of a company’s product or service. That said, beyond universal ethical norms, some ethical standards likely vary from one country to another because of divergent religious beliefs, social customs, and prevailing political and economic doctrines. Ethical relativism holds that when there are national or cross-cultural differences in what is deemed an ethical or unethical business situation, it is appropriate for local moral standards to take precedence over what the ethical standards may be in a company’s home market. Yet codes of conduct based upon ethical relativism can be ethically dangerous by creating a maze of conflicting ethical standards for multinational companies. Integrative social contracts theory: (1) suggests that there is a “social contract” by which managers in all situations have a duty to serve and (2) posits that “first-order” universal ethical norms always take precedence over “second-order” local ethical norms in those circumstances in which local ethical norms are more permissive. Integrative social contracts theory offers managers in multinational companies clear guidance in resolving cross-country ethical differences.


               884. Short Answer
Ethical universalism is based on the premise that companies and their personnel should adhere to social norms that include honesty, trustworthiness, respecting the rights of others, practicing the Golden Rule, and avoiding unnecessary harm to workers or to the users of a company’s product or service. Integrative social contracts theory suggests that there is a “social contract” by which managers in all situations have a duty to serve that provides that “first-order” universal ethical norms always take precedence over “second-order” local ethical norms in circumstances where local ethical norms are more permissive.


               885. Short Answer
Corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives undertaken by companies are frequently directed at improving the company’s “triple-bottom-line”—a reference to three types of performance metrics: social, environmental, and economic, sometimes referred to as “People,” “Planet,” and “Profits.” The goal is for a company to succeed simultaneously in all three dimensions. The term People refers to the various social initiatives that make up CSR strategies, such as corporate giving and community involvement. Planet refers to a firm’s ecological impact and environmental practices. Profit has a broader meaning with respect to the triple-bottom-line than it does otherwise. It encompasses not only the profit a firm earns for its shareholders but also the economic impact the company has on society more generally.


               886. Short Answer
The essence of the business case for why your or any company should engage in socially responsible actions and environmentally sustainable business practices boils down to “It’s the right thing to do.” Ordinary decency, civic-mindedness, and contributions to society’s well-being should be expected of any business. In today’s social and political climate, most business leaders can be expected to acknowledge that socially responsible actions are important and that businesses have a duty to be good corporate citizens. But there is a complementary school of thought that business operates on the basis of an implied social contract with the members of society. According to this contract, society grants a business the right to conduct its business affairs and agrees not to unreasonably restrain its pursuit of a fair profit for the goods or services it sells. In return for this “license to operate,” a business is obligated to act as a responsible citizen, do its fair share to promote the general welfare, and avoid doing any harm. Such a view clearly puts a moral burden on a company to operate honorably, provide good working conditions to employees, be a good environmental steward, and display good corporate citizenship.


               887. Short Answer
Environmental sustainability involves deliberate actions to protect the environment, provide for the longevity of natural resources, maintain ecological support systems for future generations, and guard against the ultimate endangerment of the planet. Sustainability initiatives undertaken by companies are directed at improving the company’s triple-bottom-line: its performance on economic, environment, and social metrics. Strategic initiatives include: (1) reengineering internal processes to improve a company’s overall performance on sustainability measures, (2) packaging redesign for products to conserve natural resources and reduce the volume of consumer waste, (3) sourcing from suppliers that practice sustainable farm management, and (4) addressing societal needs of consumers in developing countries.


               888. Short Answer
Sometimes, cost savings and improved profitability are drivers of corporate sustainability strategies. That is, social responsibility strategies linked to a customer value proposition or to key value chain activities may also help build competitive advantage. Examples include emphasizing local procurement, establishing a foundation for humane animal husbandry, running vehicles on biofuels, using only biodegradable cleaning products, and pursuing responsible waste management policies at Whole Foods Markets.


               889. Short Answer
See Figure 9.2. Environmental sustainability is concerned with the relationship of a company to its environment and its use of natural resources, includ­ing land, water, air, plants, animals, minerals, fossil fuels, and biodiversity. It is widely recognized that the world’s natural resources are finite and are being consumed and degraded at rates that threaten their capacity for renewal. Because corporations are the biggest users of natural resources, managing and maintaining these resources is criti­cal for the long-term economic interests of corporations.
Sustainability whereas social impact is concerned may also involve actions to benefit stakeholders in communities where company operations are located, promote philanthropy, address global poverty, or enhance opportunities for employees and underrepresented populations in the workforce.
Sustainability also refers to actions to build a workforce that is diverse with respect to gender, race, national origin, and other aspects that different people bring to the workplace. Most large companies in the United States have established diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) programs to ensure that their workplaces are not only open to hiring but also attractive to all groups and perspectives.
   * Citi has implemented a broad approach to DEI that includes 10 different employee affinity groups, a commitment to LGBTQ+ equality and rights, disability inclusion programs that allow all employees to meet their full potential, targeted recruiting, and internal promotion policies to build diverse representation at senior levels of the company.
   * Patagonia’s Path to Service program provides employees with 40 hours of paid time off to address local environmental issues as volunteer.
   * The Kellogg Company has provided donations of food and nutritional products to 375 million people.
   * General Mills builds its social impact strategy focuses on the theme of “nourishing lives” to emphasize its commitment to good nutrition as well as philanthropy, community building, and environmental protection.
   * Procter & Gamble’s Swiffer cleaning system, one of the company’s best-selling products, not only offers an earth-friendly design but also outperforms less ecologically friendly alternatives in terms of its broader economic impact: It reduces demands on municipal water sources, saves electricity that would be needed to heat mop water, and doesn’t add to the amount of detergent making its way into waterways and waste treatment facilities.
   * Concepts & Connections 9.2 depicts Warby Parker’s sustainability strategy relative to creating societal impact via its philanthropic activities. For each pair of glasses sold, the company provides international nonprofit partners like VisionSpring with a monthly donation of glasses; with Warby Parker’s support, these partners provide basic eye exams and teach community members how to manufacture and sell glasses at very low prices to amplify beneficial effects in their communities. By 2022, the company had distributed more than 8 million pairs of glasses to people in more than 50 countries. The average impact on a recipient of a pair of donated glasses was a 20 percent increase in personal income and a 35 percent increase in productivity.
   * Other examples of environmental sustainability initiatives mentioned in the chapter include Amazon’s plans to purchase 100,000 electric vehicles by 2040, and Ingersoll Rand’s plans reduce the carbon footprint of customers purchasing its heating and air conditioning systems by 1 gigaton.


               890. Short Answer
Social impact may involve actions to benefit stakeholders in communities where company operations are located, address global poverty, or enhance opportunities for employees and underrepresented populations in the workforce. 
There are definitely good business reasons why companies should be public-spirited and devote time and resources to social impact initiatives, as well as environmental sustainability and generally good corporate citizenship. A strong visible social responsibility or environmental sustainability strategy gives a company an edge in appealing to consumers who prefer to do business with companies like these that are considered good corporate citizens. Thus, it is important for strategy-makers to find points of intersection between society and the company’s ability to execute value chain activities or better serve customer needs because:
   * Such actions can lead to increased buyer patronage.
   * A strong commitment to socially responsible behavior reduces the risk of reputation-damaging incidents.
   * Socially responsible actions and sustainable business practices can lower costs and enhance employee recruiting and workforce retention.
   * Opportunities for revenue enhancement may also come from CSR and environmental sustainability strategies.
   * Well-conceived CSR strategies and sustainable business practices are in the best long-term interest of shareholders.


               891. Short Answer
The jury is still out on the correlation between corporate social responsibility and stock price performance and competitive advantage. Corporate social agendas that address generic social issues may help boost a company’s reputation, but it is still not yet conclusive whether or not they contribute to improving its competitive strength in the marketplace. For example, a two-year study of leading companies found that improving environmental compliance and developing environmentally friendly products enhance earnings per share, profitability, and the likelihood of winning contracts. Also, the stock prices of companies that rate high on social and environmental performance criteria have been found to perform 35 to 45 percent better than the average of the 2,500 companies comprising the Dow Jones Global Index, Finally, a review of some 135 studies indicated there is a positive, but small, correlation between good corporate behavior and good financial performance; only 2 percent of the studies showed that dedicating corporate resources to social responsibility harmed the interests of shareholders.


               892. Short Answer
Most large companies in the United States have established diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) programs to ensure that their workplaces are attractive to all groups and perspectives. As employees from lower socioeconomic origins are 32 percent less likely to become a manager in the United States, companies have revised hiring, retention, and development practices to build more diverse workforces and leadership teams.
Some companies, like Citi, have implemented a broad approach to DEI that includes 10 different employee affinity groups, a commitment to LGBTQ+ equality and rights, disability inclusion programs that allow all employees to meet their full potential, targeted recruiting, and internal promotion policies to build diverse representation at senior levels of the company.


               893. Short Answer
True. Companies that take social responsibility and corporate sustainability seriously can improve their business reputations and operational efficiency while also reducing their risk exposure and encouraging loyalty and innovation. Overall, companies that take special pains to protect the environment, take action to build a diverse workforce, seek out developmental opportunities for employees, are generous supporters of charitable causes and projects that benefit society, and practice good corporate governance are more likely to be seen as good investments and as good companies to work for or do business with. That said, a company may choose to focus its social responsibility strategy on generic social issues, but social responsibility strategies linked to its customer value proposition or key value chain activities may also help build competitive advantage.


               894. Short Answer
Nikola’s board of directors failed to fulfill at least some of the following four important obligations:
                  16. Overseeing the company’s financial accounting and financial reporting practices.
                  17. Critically appraising the company’s direction, strategy, and business approaches.
                  18. Evaluating the caliber of senior executives’ strategic leadership skills.
                  19. Instituting a compensation plan for top executives that rewards them for actions and results that serve shareholder interests.


               895. Short Answer
False. Environmental sustainability strategies, such as those at Unilever, entail deliberate and concerted actions to operate businesses in a manner that protects and maybe even enhances natural resources and ecological support systems, guards against outcomes that will ultimately endanger the planet, and is therefore sustainable for centuries.
While environmental sustainability tends to be a priority in corporate sustainability strategies like those of Unilever, and is featured prominently in sustainability reporting, social impact instead involves actions to benefit stakeholders in communities where company operations are located, address global poverty, or enhance opportunities for employees and underrepresented populations in the workforce. It is not apparent that Unilever is pursuing social impact strategies that involve:
   * Making charitable contributions, supporting community service endeavors, engaging in broader philanthropic initiatives, and reaching out to make a difference in the lives of the disadvantaged.
   * Actions to create a work environment that enhances the quality of life for employees.
   * Actions to build a workforce that is diverse with respect to gender, race, national origin, and other aspects that different people bring to the workplace.


               896. Short Answer
See Figure 10.1. Eight managerial tasks crop up repeatedly in company efforts to execute strategy, and these include: (1) building an organization—consisting of the capabilities, people, and structure needed to execute the strategy successfully; (2) allocating ample resources to strategy-critical activities—budget reallocations and resource-shifting (growing or downsizing strategic business units); (3) ensuring that policies and procedures facilitate rather than impede effective strategy execution—enforcing consistency, supporting change, and promoting a can-do work climate; (4) adopting process management programs that drive continuous improvement in how strategy execution activities are performed—continuous improvement via business process reengineering, TQM, and Six Sigma; (5) installing information and operating systems that enable company personnel to perform essential activities—tracking real-time operating and performance data; (6) tying rewards directly to the achievement of performance objectives—both substantive (financial compensation) and symbolic (culture-affirming); (7) fostering a corporate culture that promotes good strategy execution—transforming an unhealthy culture into an adaptive or high performance culture; and (8) exerting the internal leadership needed to propel implementation forward—staying on top, setting the tone, leading by example, using constructive pressure, making corrective adjustments, and so on.


               897. Short Answer
Tactics common among companies dedicated to staffing jobs with the best people they can find include: (1) putting forth considerable effort in screening and evaluating job applicants—selecting only those with suitable skill sets, energy, initiative, judgment, aptitudes for learning, and adaptability to the company’s culture; (2) investing in training programs that continue throughout employees’ careers; (3) providing promising employees with challenging, interesting, and skill-stretching assignments; (4) rotating people through jobs that span functional and geographic boundaries; (5) striving to retain talented, high-performing employees via promotions, salary increases, performance bonuses, stock options and equity ownership, fringe benefit packages, and other perks; and (6) coaching average performers to improve their skills and capabilities, while weeding out underperformers and benchwarmers.


               898. Short Answer
It depends. Each decision-making structure has its own advantages and drawbacks. Decentralized decision making means that the managers of each organizational unit are delegated lead responsibility for deciding how best to execute strategy. The ultimate goal of decentralized decision making is to put decision-making authority in the hands of those persons or teams closest to and most knowledgeable about the situation. Yet control issues often arise in decentralized structures. In centralized, authoritarian-structured organizations, it is easy to know who is accountable when things do not go well. The big drawback of the centralized structure is that an organization may be sluggish in responding to changing conditions because of the time it takes for the review/approval process to run up all the layers of the management bureaucracy. Also, centralized decision making is often impractical—the larger the company and the more scattered its operations, the more that decision-making authority has to be delegated to managers closer to the scene of the action. Regardless of the type of existing structure, attempting to carry out a new strategy with an old organizational structure is usually unwise.


               899. Short Answer
See Concepts & Connections 10.1. Deloitte’s successful execution of its talent strategy has encompassed:
   * a clear path to partnership
   * formal training programs
   * special programs for high performers
   * sponsorship.


               900. Short Answer
Superior strategy execution capabilities are the only source of sustainable com­petitive advantage when strategies are easy for rivals to copy. Zara has engineered its production process to maximize turn­over and turnaround time, creating a true advantage in this step of strategy execution (see Concepts & Connections 10.2). Overall, Zara has managed to create competitive advantage in every level of strategy execution by tightly aligning design, production, advertising, and real estate with the overall strategy of fast fashion: extremely fast and extremely flexible.


               901. Short Answer
The case for empowering down-the-line managers and employees to make decisions related to daily operations and executing the strategy—also known as decentralized decision making—is based on the belief that a company that draws on the combined intellectual capital of all its employees can outperform a command-and-control (centralized or authoritarian) company. Decentralized decision making means that the managers of each organizational unit are delegated lead responsibility for deciding how best to execute strategy. The ultimate goal of decentralized decision making is to put decision-making authority in the hands of those persons or teams closest to and most knowledgeable about the situation. Decentralized decision making in strategy execution means, for example, that employees may be empowered to do what it takes to please suppliers and decrease defect rates or cycle time, or to please customers and increase volume purchases or repeat sales.


               902. Short Answer
A change in strategy nearly always calls for budget reallocations and resource-shifting. Previously important units, now having a lesser role in the new strategy, may need downsizing. Units that now have a bigger strategic role may require above-average increases in their budget allocations to afford more people, new equipment, and/or additional facilities. That is, managers must be deeply involved in reviewing budget proposals, directing the proper amounts of resources to strategy-critical organization units, and exercising their power to put enough resources behind new strategic initiatives to make things happen, and they have to make the tough decisions to kill projects and activities that are no longer justified.


               903. Short Answer
Capital allocations must be closely linked to the needs of good strategy execution. Too little funding and an insufficiency of other types of resources slow progress and impede the efforts of organizational units to execute their pieces of the strategic plan proficiently. Too much funding and an overabundance of other resources waste organizational resources and reduce financial performance. Both outcomes argue for managers to be deeply involved in reviewing budget proposals and directing the proper kinds and amounts of resources to strategy-critical organizational units and priorities, including business process reengineering to control costs and standardize processes, employee learning, and incentive systems.

Examples include:
                  20. Alphabet’s (formerly Google) strong support of R&D activities helped it to grow to a $1.7 trillion giant by 2022. In 2013, however, Google decided to kill its 20 percent time policy, which allowed its staff to work on side projects of their choice one day a week. While this side project program gave rise to many innovations, such as Gmail and AdSense (a big contributor to Google’s revenues), it also meant that fewer resources were available to projects that were deemed closer to the core of Google’s mission. In the years since Google killed the 20 percent policy, the company has consistently topped Fortune, Forbes, and Fast Company magazines’ “most innovative companies” list for ideas such as Google Pixel smartphones and its Waymo self-driving automobile subsidiary.
                  21. See Concepts & Connections 10.2. Every step of Zara’s value-chain execution is geared toward putting fashionable clothes in stores quickly, realizing high turnover, and strategically driving traffic. Zara purposefully manufactures in small lot sizes to avoid discounting later on and also to encourage impulse shopping, as a particular item could be gone in a few days. From start to finish, Zara has engineered its production process to maximize turnover and turnaround time, creating a true advantage in this step of strategy execution. Also, Zara spends no money on advertising, but it occupies some of the most expensive retail space in town, always near the high-fashion houses it imitates.


               904. Short Answer
Erica’s company’s ability to marshal the resources needed to support new strategic initiatives has a major impact on the efficacy of the strategy execution process. Too little funding and an insufficiency of other types of resources slow progress and impede the efforts of Global Package’s organizational units to execute their pieces of the strategic plan competently. Too much funding of particular organizational units and value-chain activities wastes Global Package’s resources and reduces its financial performance. Both of these scenarios argue for Erica to become deeply involved in reviewing budget proposals and directing the proper kinds and amounts of resources to strategy-critical organizational units at Global Package.


               905. Short Answer
Policies and operating procedures for Sutter Pacific Medical Center that Surani could develop and deploy in order to facilitate strategy execution could be among the following:
   * Promote the creation of a work climate and culture among primary health care and support staff that facilitates good strategy execution: Sutter Pacific Medical Center’s policies and procedures help to set the tone of its work climate and contributes to a common understanding of “how we do things around here.”
   * Help ensure consistency in how execution-critical primary health care and support activities are performed: Policies and procedures serve to standardize the way that activities are performed at Sutter Pacific Medical Center. This can be important for ensuring the quality and reliability of the strategy execution process.
   * Provide top-down guidance regarding how primary health care and support activities and tasks need to be done: Policies and procedures represent a store of organizational or managerial knowledge about efficient and effective ways of doing things—a set of well-honed routines for running Sutter Pacific Medical Center.


               906. Short Answer
Well-conceived policies and procedures aid strategy execution; out-of-sync ones are barriers to effective implementation. Well-conceived policies and operating procedures act to facilitate organizational change and good strategy execution in three ways: (1) enforce needed consistency in how particular strategy-critical activities are performed; (2) provide top-down guidance regarding how to alter past practice and how certain things now need to be done; and (3) promote a positive, can-do work climate or transform an unhealthy corporate culture into a healthy culture that facilitates good strategy execution.


               907. Short Answer
TQM is a management tool that has attracted numerous users and advocates over several decades, and it can deliver good results when used properly. TQM will likely take a fairly long time to show significant results—very little benefit emerges within the first six months. The long-term payoff of TQM, if it comes, depends heavily on management’s success in implanting a culture within which the TQM philosophy and practices can thrive. Still, TQM doctrine preaches that there’s no such thing as “good enough” and that everyone has a responsibility to participate in continuous improvement. TQM is thus a race without a finish. Success comes from making little steps forward each day, a process that the Japanese call kaizen.


               908. Short Answer
The statistical thinking underlying Six Sigma is based on the following three principles: All work is a process, all processes have variability, and all processes create data that explain variability.


               909. Short Answer
Well-conceived state-of-the-art operating systems not only enable better strategy execution but also strengthen organizational capabilities—enough at times to provide a competitive edge over rivals. If the systems it employs are advanced systems that have not yet been adopted by rivals, the systems may provide the company with a competitive advantage as long as the costs of deploying the systems do not outweigh their benefits.


               910. Short Answer
Casey and Danielle can readily justify retaining Jane, since well-conceived state-of-the-art operating systems not only enable better strategy execution but also strengthen organizational capabilities—enough at times to provide a competitive edge over rivals. If the systems it employs are advanced systems, i.e., for data analytics, that have not yet been adopted by rivals, the systems may provide Retrograde Coffee Roasters with a competitive advantage, at least as long as the costs of deploying the systems do not outweigh the benefits.


               911. Short Answer
True. A properly designed reward structure is management’s most powerful tool for gaining employee commitment to superior strategy execution and excellent operating results. The more a manager understands what motivates subordinates and is able to use appropriate motivational incentives, the greater will be employees’ commitment to good day-in, day-out strategy execution and achievement of performance targets.


               912. Short Answer
Among the guidelines for creating incentive compensation systems that link employee behavior to organizational objectives are: (1) make the performance payoff a major, not minor, piece of the total compensation package; (2) offer incentives that extend to all managers and all workers, not just top management; (3) administer the reward system with scrupulous objectivity and fairness; (4) tie incentives to performance outcomes directly linked to good strategy execution and financial performance; (5) make sure the performance targets that each individual or team is expected to achieve involve outcomes that the individual or team can personally affect; and (6) keep the time between achieving the target performance outcome and the payment of the reward as short as possible.


               913. Short Answer
In addition to monetary or financial rewards, most successful companies also make extensive use of nonmonetary incentives, which can include: (1) attractive perks and fringe benefits to improve employees’ quality of life, reduce turnover, and curb absenteeism; (2) promotion-from-within policies to bind workers to the organization and incentivize good performance; (3) acting on suggestions from employees to empower a sense of ownership and boost productivity; (4) a work milieu in which there is genuine sincerity, caring, and mutual respect to promote team-building and camaraderie; (5) information-sharing (transparency) with employees about financial performance, strategy, operational measures, market conditions, and competitors’ actions, etc., to build trust; and (6) attractive office spaces and facilities to boost morale.


               914. Short Answer
Companies like Wegmans (Concepts & Connections 10.3) and Goldman Sachs Concepts & Connections 10.4) are noted in the chapter as making a concerted effort to recruit the best and brightest people they can find and then retain them with excellent compensation packages, opportunities for rapid advancement and professional growth, and interesting assignments. Having a pool of “A players” with strong skill sets and lots of brainpower is essential to their businesses. These tactics are not unusual among companies dedicated to staffing jobs with the best people they can find. The tactics may include: (1) putting forth considerable effort in screening and evaluating job applicants—selecting only those with suitable skill sets, energy, initiative, judgment, aptitudes for learning, and adaptability to the company’s culture; (2) investing in training programs that continue throughout employees’ careers; (3) providing promising employees with challenging, interesting, and skill-stretching assignments; (4) rotating people through jobs that span functional and geographic boundaries; (5) striving to retain talented, high-performing employees via promotions, salary increases, performance bonuses, stock options and equity ownership, fringe benefit packages, and other perks; and (6) coaching average performers to improve their skills and capabilities, while weeding out underperformers and benchwarmers.


               915. Short Answer
Corporate culture is a company’s internal work climate or “organizational DNA,” and it is shaped by its core values, beliefs, and business principles. A company’s culture is critical to the strategy execution effort because it influences its traditions, work practices, and style of operating. Types of corporate cultures include high-performance cultures, adaptive cultures, and unhealthy cultures. Of these, adaptive cultures work to the advantage of all companies. Every company operates in a market and business climate that is changing to one degree or another. As a company’s strategy evolves, an adaptive culture is a definite ally in the strategy implementation, strategy execution process as compared to cultures that have to be coaxed and cajoled to change.


               916. Short Answer
The chief things to look for include the values, business principles, and ethical standards that management preaches and practices; the company’s approach to people management and the official policies, procedures, and operating practices that provide guidelines for the behavior of company personnel; the atmosphere and spirit that pervades the work climate; the way managers and employees interact and relate to one another; the strength of peer pressure to do things in particular ways and conform to expected norms; the actions and behaviors that management explicitly encourages and rewards and those that are frowned upon; the company’s revered traditions and oft-repeated stories about “heroic acts” and “how we do things around here”; and the manner in which the company deals with external stakeholders.


               917. Short Answer
ls Fargo Bank is an exemplar of a company that had little regard for ethical standards or was run by executives driven by greed and ego gratification. Executives that work in unhealthy corporate cultures like Wells Fargo’s exude the negatives of arrogance, ego, greed, and an “ends justify the means” mentality in pursuing overambitious revenue and profitability targets. Senior managers may wink at unethical behavior and may cross over the line to unethical (and sometimes criminal) behavior themselves. Some executives go so far as to adopt accounting principles that make financial performance look better than it really is. When a company’s present culture promotes attitudes, behaviors, and ways of doing things that are in sync with the chosen strategy and conducive to first-rate strategy execution, the culture functions as a valuable ally in the strategy execution process.


               918. Short Answer
Unhealthy corporate cultures tend to be: (1) highly politicized and prone to infighting and turf wars; (2) change-resistant, risk-averse, and prone to avoidance of continuous improvement; (3) insular, arrogant, and plagued by a “not invented here” syndrome; (4) unethical and greed-driven, plagued by an “ends justify the means” mentality; and/or (5) characterized by incompatible subcultures by department, location, or subunit that tend to clash with one another or are out of tune with the overall culture.


               919. Short Answer
When a company’s culture is grounded in many of the needed strategy-executing behaviors, Kaiser employees feel genuinely better about their jobs, the health care company they work for, and the merits of what the regional facility is trying to accomplish. Greater employee buy-in for what Kaiser is trying to accomplish boosts motivation and marshals organizational energy behind the drive for good strategy execution. An energized workforce enhances the chances of achieving execution-critical performance targets and good strategy execution.


               920. Short Answer
See Figure 10.2. The place for management to begin a major remodeling of the corporate culture is by identifying those facets of the current culture that are conducive to good strategy execution and those that are not. The next step involves specifying what actions, behaviors, and work practices should be prominent in the “new” culture. The third step is to talk openly about the problems of the present culture and discuss how new behaviors will improve company performance. The final step involves selling company personnel on the need for new-style behaviors and work practices. Doing so involves making a compelling case for culture change, which can be accomplished by: (1) citing reasons the current strategy has to be modified and why new strategic initiatives are being undertaken; (2) citing why and how certain behavioral norms and work practices in the current culture pose obstacles to good execution of new strategic initiatives; (3) explaining why new behaviors and work practices have important roles in the new culture and will produce better results; and (4) following up quickly with forceful, high-profile actions that are both substantive and symbolic.


               921. Short Answer
Promoting a strong work-life balance would be paramount. See Concepts & Connections 10.4. To create and nurture a culture that can adapt rapidly to shifting business conditions, companies first need to consider whether or not its current culture is strong or unhealthy, and, if the latter is true, take appropriate corrective actions. By the same token, companies must make a point of staffing their organizations with people who are flexible, who rise to the challenge of change, and who have an aptitude for adapting well to new circumstances. Cultural change never comes swiftly, but recruiters at Goldman Sachs decided to act, and sought buy-in for changes from the company’s C-suite of executives. To foster a more familial atmosphere at work, Goldman began with small steps, such as setting up sports leagues and encouraging regular team happy hours. More significantly, Goldman instituted more employee-friendly work schedules and policies more accommodating of work-life balance. The bank also liberalized its parental leave policies, provided greater flexibility in work schedules, and enacted protections for interns and junior bankers designed to limit their working hours. Goldman also overhauled its performance review and promotion systems as well as its recruiting practices and policies regarding diversity.


               922. Short Answer
The most important symbolic culture-changing action is for management to “lead by example.” Another symbolic action is a group gathering or employee training program or even a “ceremonial event” that serves to acknowledge and celebrate each culture-changing success. Substantive culture-changing actions involve top management so that personnel can see “unmistakable support,” and among these actions are: (1) replacing key executives who stonewall change; (2) promoting individuals who have advocated the culture shift and who can serve as role models for the desired cultural behavior; (3) appointing outsiders with the desired cultural attributes to high-visibility positions; (4) screening all new recruits carefully and hiring only those who appear to fit in with the new culture; (5) mandating that all personnel attend culture-changing programs and events; (6) designing compensation incentives that boost the pay of individuals who display desired cultural behaviors, while hitting the nonbelievers in the pocketbook; and (7) revising policies and procedures in ways that will support the new culture.


               923. Short Answer
Hostility to change, heavily politicized decision making, insular thinking, unethical and greed-driven behaviors, and the presence of incompatible, clashing subcultures indicate that Jason’s auto dealership has an unhealthy corporate culture. Among the four steps that you could suggest that Janeen take to change a dysfunctional culture, that is, a culture out of sync with the company’s strategy are: (1) identify facets of the present culture that are dysfunctional and impede good strategy execution; (2) specify clearly what new actions, behaviors, and work practices should characterize the new culture; (3) talk openly about problems with the current culture and make a persuasive case for cultural reform; and (4) follow with visible, forceful actions—both substantive and symbolic—to ingrain a new set of behaviors, practices, and norms.


               924. Short Answer
In general, leading the drive for good strategy execution and operating excellence calls for three actions on the part of the manager: (1) stay on top of what is happening and closely monitoring progress, (2) put constructive pressure on the organization to execute the strategy well and achieve operating excellence, and (3) initiate corrective actions to improve strategy execution and achieve the targeted performance results.


               925. Short Answer
Proficient strategy execution requires company managers to be diligent and adept in spotting problems, learning what obstacles lie in the path of good execution, and then clearing the way for progress: the goal must be to produce better results speedily and productively. One of the best ways for executives to stay on top of strategy execution is by regularly visiting the field and talking with many different people at many different levels—a technique often labeled managing by walking around [MBWA]. While leadership efforts to instill a spirit of high achievement into the culture usually necessitate putting constructive pressure on the organization to reward or accentuate positive behaviors and attitudes, there are negative reinforcements too. Low-performing workers and people who reject the results-oriented cultural emphasis have to be weeded out or at least moved to out-of-the-way positions. Finally, the leadership challenge of making corrective adjustments is twofold: deciding when adjustments are needed and deciding what adjustments to make.


               926. Short Answer
Actions that Gina can take to change a culture that is out of step with the charity’s strategy are: identify facets of the present culture that are dysfunctional and impede good strategy execution; specify clearly what new actions, behaviors, and work practices should characterize the new culture; talk openly about problems with the current culture and make a persuasive case for cultural reform; and follow with visible, forceful actions—both substantive and symbolic—to ingrain a new set of behaviors, practices, and norms.
Examples of symbolic culture-changing actions might include inexpensive decorations in the facility, conservative expense accounts and entertainment allowances, a lean administrative staff, scrutiny of budget requests, reduced executive perks, and so on. Another category of symbolic actions includes holding ceremonial events to place the spotlight on and honor paid staff and volunteers whose actions and performance exemplify what is called for in the new culture. Examples of substantive culture-changing actions that display Gina’s commitment to instill a new culture include: replacing key personnel who are resisting or obstructing needed cultural changes, and promoting individuals who have stepped forward to spearhead the shift to a different culture and who can serve as role models for the desired cultural behavior.


               927. Short Answer
The culture of this pharmaceutical company is weak and unhealthy, whereas a strong culture would encourage actions, behaviors, and work practices that are in sync with the chosen strategy and conducive to good strategy execution. A strong culture is a valuable ally in the strategy execution process, although sometimes some of the very behaviors needed to execute the strategy successfully run contrary to the attitudes, behaviors, and operating practices embedded in the prevailing culture. Such a clash poses a real dilemma for company personnel. Should they be loyal to the culture and company traditions (to which they are likely to be emotionally attached) and thus resist or be indifferent to actions that will promote better strategy execution—a choice that will certainly weaken the drive for good strategy execution? Alternatively, should they go along with management’s strategy execution effort and engage in actions that run counter to the culture—a choice that will likely impair morale and lead to a less-than-enthusiastic commitment to good strategy execution? Those less-than favorable or negative culture traits appear to have been the case at the pharmaceutical company depicted in the example above. Culture-bred resistance to the actions and behaviors needed for good strategy execution, particularly if it is as strong and widespread at the pharmaceutical company in the example, would pose a formidable hurdle that must be surmounted in order for any strategy execution effort at that company to be successful going forward.


Version 1